---
layout: page.njk
title: "Minutes from the SIG Convenors' Meeting"
creator: Susan Schreibman
---
# Minutes from the SIG Convenors' Meeting




Present: Øyvind Eide (Ontologies), Amanda Gailey (Manuscripts), Kevin Hawkins (local
 host and Libraries),
 Serge Heiden (Tools), Julianne Nyhan (Education), Dan O’Donnell (Board Chair),
 Elena Pierazzo (Manuscripts), Doug Reside (Text and Graphics), Laurent Romary
 (Council Chair), Kenneth Reed (Scholarly Publishing), Malte Rehbein
 (Manuscripts), Chris Ruotolo (TEI Secretary and Board), Stephanie Schlitz
 (Education), Susan Schreibman (SIG Convener and Board Member), Peter Stadler
 (Correspondence) 


The meeting was called to order at 12:30 EST. 


After an introduction by SIG Chairs, we spoke about what was successful
 and what might be changed in regards the SIGs within the structure of
 the TEI MM/Conference. The following recommendations were made:


* Change the name to ‘SIG Working Group Meetings’ rather than ‘SIG
 Business Meetings’.
* SIG chairs welcomed the idea of being able to present a poster
 and participate in the slam. They also welcomed the idea that
 the poster would be accepted outside the usual refereeing
 process.
* There was general consensus that having all SIGs meet during the
 same two hour slot was not as satisfactory as the arrangement at
 Kings in which SIGs were able to elect for meetings from one
 hour to all day. It was agreed that this would allow for the
 greatest participation of the membership in the activities of
 the SIGs.
* SIG chairs agreed to follow up on the MM in the following
 ways:



	
	* Post minutes to the individual SIG lists
	
	* Post minutes to TEI\-L
	
	* Mark up minutes for posting on SIG pages on the TEI site
	 (this should be sent to Chris Ruotolo following a template
	 from another set of minutes)


- Chairs agreed that they would like to use some time during the
 TEI MM Business Meeting to update the membership on the
 activities of the SIGs during the past year. It was noted that
 this was past practice and seems to have worked quite well.

- Prior to next year’s MM, SIG Chairs should send out pre\-meeting
 announcements, including an agenda.

- For next year’s MM, it was requested that SIG chairs have a
 distinctly coloured badge (as Board and Council members did this
 year) indicating the name of the SIG they were chairing.

The second order of business was a general discussion on the ways the TEI
 Board and Council could better support the SIGs. The conversation was
 wide ranging, and included the following suggestions:


* Chairs uniformly requested that the TEI provide an easier more
 integrated way for them to post material to the TEI site and
 have it be part of the official record (as opposed to the wikis
 which seem more ephemeral and marginal to the TEI\-C site).
 Several options were discussed, but the one uniformly praised
 was the possibility of SIG Chairs being granted administrative
 access to a series of SIG pages. Chris said she felt this was
 possible with the current TEI content management system. She
 said she would look into this and report back.
* It was also felt that newcomers to the TEI might find it easier
 to participate in a SIG or post to a SIG list than to TEI\-L. It
 was suggested that a ‘New to the TEI site button’ could be
 inserted on the home page that linked to the SIG home page. It
 was also agreed that the home page for the SIGs could be more
 welcoming. Susan said she would look into this.
* There was a debriefing about TEI EJ from Julianne and Stephanie
 as well as a call for content and reviewers. Chairs praised the
 work of the Education SIG in this venture.
* Mini Grants were discussed. It was wholeheartedly agreed that
 these provided a valuable opportunity for SIGs to carry out the
 work of the TEI. Chairs asked the TEI Board to continue and
 expand them. It as also noted that they:



	
	* Were extremely helpful in getting TEI work done
	
	* Important in indicating that the TEI supported the
	 project/ event


- A discussion on the role of Council Liaison ensued. It was agreed
 that this was an important link, but that at present the
 relationship did not work as effectively or efficiently as it
 might. Laurent and Susan agreed to discuss this point and get
 back to the Chairs.

Adjourned at 13:30 EST.




