---
layout: page.njk
title: "Minutes of the TEI-C Council Meeting, Jan. 12th, 2002"
date: 2002-01-12
---
# Minutes of the TEI-C Council Meeting, Jan. 12th, 2002






TEI\-C Council meeting, Jan. 12th, 2002
Minutes v1\.2

Geoffrey Rockwell


Attending: Christian Wittern (CW), Perry Willett (PW), Geoffrey
 Rockwell (GW), Sebastian Rahtz (SR, board representative),
 Merrilee Proffitt (MP), Syd Bauman (SB, editor), Matthew Driscoll
 (MD), Lou Burnard (LB, editor), John Unsworth (JU, chair), David
 Durand (DD), Laurent Romary (LR)






 Initial Discussion
 
 
It was agreed that Geoffrey Rockwell would take notes.




John Unsworth provided an update on the Consortium. The 2002
 budget (handed out in Pisa) predicted 57 members and 50
 subscribers. We now have 49 members so we are on track. Total
 anticipated income $357K. $16K budgeted for workgroups (separate
 from monies spelled out in NEH grant).




There was a suggestion that the list of institutional members
 be moved to a more prominent spot in the web site as that is what
 impresses administrators when one is making the case that your
 institution should be a member. Lou Burnard said he would look
 into that. 
 LBMove list of
 institutional members up near top of web site.





We reviewed the TEI\-C Council Terms of Reference. Our
 priorities are to oversee changes and long range planning.





 Review of P4
 
 
Lou Burnard provided an update


148 changes from the sublime to the enormous, 6 outstanding
 issues. It is still the intention of the changes to not break any
 existing documents. Lou and Syd will produce a list of
 outstanding problems. 
 editorsProduce list of outstanding
 problems. The chapters of Character sets and WSDs
 need considerable revision (see below). The revised ODD system
 can now generate DTDs, data files used by the pizza chef, and
 HTML or PDF versions of the text of the Guidelines. It has not
 yet been enhanced to produce a TEIxlite version of the text but
 this is an option under consideration. LB said that it was
 important that such a version should not be regarded as a
 revisable source of the Guidelines. 
 LB or SR Possibly revise ODD to be able to
 produce TEIxLite version of P4\.



We talked about how workgroups submit their work and how that
 integrates with ODD. There is a document ([EDW55](/Vault/ED/edw55.tei)) that
 describes how draft chapters should be submitted which this group
 can look at, but there is no urgency to reviewing this (unlike
 the urgency to reviewing [EDW54](/Vault/ED/edw54.tei)
 \- see below.) 
 TEI\-C
 Council Review EDW55 \- Low priority compared to
 review of EDW54\.





 Element Parent Child Issue
 
 One of the issues that arose in Pisa was whether or not to
 include for each element information about the element's parents
 and children. Various people at Pisa felt this was useful when
 using the paper guidelines. Lou felt this could be misleading
 since the relatives listed are not necessarily available. It was
 agreed that the parents and children should be included in the P4
 in the manner they appear in P3\. 
 Editors with help from SRAdd relative
 information to P4\.  We voted on the issue:
 


* 7 votes for P3\-like text
* 1 vote for dividing the information by tag set
* 1 vote for leaving relatives out


In the course of our discussion we discussed the possibility
 of providing a custom documentation tool that would produce a
 version of the Guidelines tailored to the project which could
 have the relevant relatives. 
 SR?Develop online tool for creating
 custom documentation.  While this is a good idea
 we felt the paper copy still needs P3\-like relatives listed.




 Call for changes for P3 to P4
 
 The result of a call for changes to P4 didn't turn up much.
 Julia Flander's questionnaire had a question that may have turned
 up some P4 issues. John U should check with her. 
 JUCheck with Julia about
 questionnaire.  David Seaman may have some
 suggestions that he will forward to editors.


The Ibsen suggestions seem more like P5 issues, since the
 intent of P4 was mostly to bring P3 into line with XML. Ibsen
 suggestions should be deferred to a group that will review
 
 core issues. Editors will respond to Ibsen
 folks. 
 EditorsRespond to
 Ibsen folks. 





 What has to be done to finish P4
 
 We reviewed what needs doing to finish the P4\. There are three
 major tasks:
 


* Including the information about parents and
 children back in (see [2\.2](https://tei-c.org/activities/council/meetings/minutes-of-the-tei-c-council-meeting-jan-12th-2002))
* A bunch of little things
* Revising two chapters \- the XML chapter and
 the Character Set chapter (see below for discussion of
 both.)




 XML Chapter
 
 The Council was asked for input on chapter 2, esp. 2\.11 which
 Lou felt gets dated quickly. We felt that 2\.11 should stay and
 be updated with reference to the W3C, stylesheets, and pointers
 as to where to get more updated information. 
 LBUpdate chapter 2\. 



We had a discussion about URLs and how to include them. Some
 of the hacks mentioned included adding a URL attribute to xptr,
 xref, and figure (Sebastian's hack). We wondered if we should
 have a web page of hacks captured in the wild? We agreed that
 the editors will look at this and that a note will be included in
 chapter 14 that mentions Sepastian's hack. A proper solution will
 have to wait for P5 and solutions from W3C. 
 Editors with help from SRAdd notes to P4
 that mention issue of urls and provide SR's
 hack. 





 Character Sets – Chapter 4
 
 Christian summarized the work on chapter 4\. The working group
 found it difficult to deal with both the SGML and XML issues
 around character sets. It was agreed that the chapter should
 concentrate on XML with notes about SGML where it differs. It was
 noted that the xml:lang attribute and the TEI lang attribute
 overlap but do different things so we need to keep the TEI lang
 attribute. The title of the chapter might be changed to
 "Languages and Character Sets". Issues with the WSD also need to
 be dealt with. An appendix of all the acronyms would be useful
 along with examples of the differences between character and
 glyph. In short the chapter needs work. The editors will return
 an edited version of the chapter quickly (end of Feb.) to the
 working group which will then try to get it back to the editors
 by the end of March. 
 Editors and
 CWReturn edited version of chapter 4\. CW and
 workgroup will then review changes. 





 Printing P4
 
 We discussed when P4 will go to print and how it will be
 printed. Lou estimated 3 months to finish the P4\. John is going
 to try to get an estimate for print\-on\-demand costs so that we
 can compare that method to massive print job of 1000
 copies. 
 JUCheck about
 on\-demand printing costs.  No CD with Dynatext
 version will be published. The schedule now is:
 


* End of Feb. – Draft sent out (with Character Set
 chapter rewrite)
* End of March – Comments solicited for no later than
 end of March.





 P5
 
 
We had a general discussion of P5\. We will not be constrained
 by trying to avoid breaking existing TEI\-conformant documents in
 development of P5\. This led to question as to what should happen
 with P4 when P5 comes out and what we should say about the life
 span of P4\. Do we freeze P4 or accept only corrections for a
 fixed amount of time? We need to provide guidance to people who
 want to send suggestions.


Sebastian felt we should keep P4 around for 5 years (after P5
 comes out), support software (Pizza Chef) and fix things that are
 actually broken for that period.


The question was raised as to whether we should say that P4
 was the last to support SGML. Lou and Sebastian didn't want to go
 that far but it was felt we could suggest that new users use
 XML.


We agreed that we don't need to make announcements about the
 future status of P4 until P5 is out.




We had a discussion about whether TEI\-C Council members who
 were not TEI members could have access to the member's
 area. John is going to e\-mail the board about this but believes
 they need access in order to do their work. 
 JUCheck with board on issue of council
 member access to member area of web site. 





Lou reported on the areas where people had suggestions for
 P5\. His list is based on a talk he gave in Pisa (see [http://www.tei\-c.org/Members/2001\-Pisa/](http://www.tei-c.org/Members/2001-Pisa/).) We discussed
 Lou's list and decided on the following possible areas for work
 for P5:
 


Character Encoding
 Core Tags and Schemas
 Metadata and Miniheaders
 Source Description
 Transcription of Primary Sources
 Stand\-Off Markup, Xlink and Xptr
 Term Banks, Dictionaries and Ontologies
 Tags for Authoring
 Multimodal Communicative Acts
 Metrical Annotation
 Image and Multimedia Annotation











We first agreed that 3\.3\.2 was the business of the whole
 Council so we removed it. We then went through a process of
 selecting our top 2 issues to be dealt with by a workgroup. The
 two that got the most votes were Character Encoding and Stand\-off
 Markup, Xlink and Xpntr.


In the second round of voting the two issues that got the most
 votes of the remaining issues were Metadata and Miniheaders and
 Transcription of Primary Sources. Thus we have the following
 priority sequence:
 


* [I3\.3\.2](I3.3.2)Core Tags and Schemas – For the entire
 council
* [I3\.3\.1](I3.3.1)Character Encoding
* [I3\.3\.6](I3.3.6)Stand\-Off Markup, Xlink and Xptr
* [I3\.3\.3](I3.3.3)Metadata and Miniheaders
* [I3\.3\.5](I3.3.5)Transcription of Primary Sources
* [I3\.3\.4](I3.3.4)Source Description


The general strategy for P5 is:
 


* Look at what the W3C is doing first
* Don't do things that others have developed standards for
 (like mathematics)
* Commission workgroups for what is left over


We agreed to commission two workgroups (given the money we
 have).




 Character encoding
 
 Christian Wittern was voted chair of the Character Encoding
 workgroup. The workgroup gets a budget of US $8,000\. The
 workgroup has the immediate task of working with the editors to
 rewrite chapters 4 and 25 and this will involve the existing
 members and can be considered a continuation of their current
 work. (See above \[<AI11>].)


Once done with the P4 chapters the workgroup has is renewed
 for a term of one year and should meet at least once. The new
 membership is up to the chair. The workgroup should report at the
 Oct. 11th meeting. Their task is to review the proposals in
 extenso and propose revisions to the way character encoding is
 handled in general. This will involve a rewrite of chapters 4 and
 25 – to reconsider the subject of character encoding and
 writing system declarations. A workplan is called for by the end
 of April, preliminary report in October, and final report in
 January of 2003\. 
 CWCreate Character Encoding workgroup and
 keep it on schedule. 





 EDW 54
 
 There is a document ([EDW 54](/Vault/ED/edw54.tei)) on
 how to make workgroups work. We need to all review this and send
 suggestions to editors. 
 TEI\-C
 CouncilReview document EDW54\. 





 Stand\-Off Markup, Xlink and Xptr
 
 We commissioned a workgroup on Stand\-Off Markup, Xlink and
 Xptr with David Durand as chair. David has the same schedule with
 the additional request that he inform us by the end of February
 as to who the members are. This workgroup will also have a budget
 of US $8,000\. We do not have a formal charge for this group; one
 should be drawn up. 
 DDCreate workgroup and keep it on
 schedule. 



For the record it was mentioned that one editor should attend
 each workgroup meeting.





 NEH Grant
 
 John updated us on the NEH grant. The funding came in
 May. There was a problem with the TEI tax status so it is the
 University of Virginia that administers the grant. The expenses
 have to be billed over a 2 year period. The main thing the Council
 had to do was select people for task 2 (SGML to XML TEI texts
 conversion.)


We came up with a list of names for the 6 experts:


John Price\-Wilkin (John PW), Wendell Piez, Michael Popham,
 Jessica Perry Hekman, Sue Fisher, David McKelvie, Frank Tompa


We decided that John should contact John Price\-Wilkin and see
 if he would chair the group. If he agrees he should then be
 provided with our suggestions for names, but allowed to select his
 team. 
 JUContact John PW
 about heading group. 



We also came up with a list of possible people for the 10 who
 have experience with SGML texts that need converting. This list
 will be passed to John PW.


Julia Flanders, Lealle Fredland, Perry Willett, Louis Barch,
 Perseus Project, Nancy Kushigian, Tomaz Erjavec, Peter Flynn,
 Slave Narratives Project, Sebastian Rahtz


We would recommend to the chair of this project that he/she
 make a open call for groups with significant TEI SGML holdings who
 want to participate. The chair, who we hope will be John PW,
 should be provided with a schedule that includes a report to the
 board in May. 
 JU and chair of NEH
 groupProvide chair with schedule and chair needs to
 keep to it. 





 ESTATE Grant
 
 We discussed the request from the ESTATE project to write a
 letter of support for their grant proposal and approved it. The
 proposal is to develop TEI training, deliver it in Europe, and
 support two workgroups. We discussed the issues around the
 protocol of other groups running TEI workgroups. John U will
 contact the leader of Estate and clarify the language in the
 grant. We did feel this grant proposal was worth supporting as it
 will not only develop and deliver TEI training, but it will also
 pay for workgroups we cannot afford. Anyone who is interested in
 the grant should look at the proposal and get comments back to
 John as soon as possible. 
 JUWork with ESTATE people to improve grant
 proposal and write letter of support. 





 Other Business
 
 
 Training
 
 We discussed training and whether TEI should certify training
 or develop training. We decided to form a committee made up of
 Geoffrey Rockwell, Julia Flanders, Perry Willett, and Sebastian
 Rahtz. The committee should look at existing training and develop
 a training strategy for the TEI. The committee should consider
 the question of what people are willing to pay? 
 Training Comm \= GR, JF, PW, SRReview TEI
 training and report back with strategy. 





 Certification for Tools and Texts
 
 We discussed certifying Tools and Texts. To be able to certify
 things we may need to trademark a name and/or logo. John will
 look into that.
 JULook
 into getting trademark for TEI. 



We decided that a committee should look generally into the
 issue of the TEI providing consulting. The members of the
 committee will be Matthew Driscoll, Merrilee Proffitt, and
 Laurent Romary. They will develop a consulting strategy for the
 TEI which could include consulting on software or texts. 
 Consulting Comm \= MD, MP,
 LRReview and propose strategy for TEI consulting and
 certification. 





 Copyright
 
 We discussed getting copyright clearance from all workgroups
 and Council members. John will work with lawyers to develop such
 a document and we will all have to sign it. This is to ensure
 that the TEI\-C has a license to use all the materials developed
 for it. 
 JUDevelop
 copyright license doc and get us all to sign
 it. 





The next meeting may be Oct. 11 in Chicago depending on
 funding. Rockwell was asked when these minutes would be ready and
 promised them for Friday.





