---
title: "TC M13: TEI Council Conference Call 20 Sept 04"
date: 2004-09-20
---
# TC M13: TEI Council Conference Call 20 Sept 04



The following were present during the call which started at
 13:05 UTC: Syd Bauman (SB), Alex Bia (AB), David Birnbaum (DB), Lou Burnard
 (LB), Matthew Driscoll (MD), David Durand (DD), Julia Flanders
 (JF), Sebastian Rahtz (SR), Laurent Romary (LR), Susan
 Schreibman (SS), Natasha
 Smith (NS), Edward Vanhoute (EV), Perry Willett (PW),
 Christian Wittern (CW).
 


Actions from the [previous meeting](/Activities/Council/Meetings/tcm12.xml) were reviewed: 
 
 + CW reported that John Smith had expressed concern at the slow progress
 made in acting on his group's proposals. LB apologised for
 the delay; he had now posted a suggestion for how the examples
 cited in the group's paper might be encoded. (Circulated to
 Council on 17 Sept). It was expected that JS would react to this
 proposal on the TEI\-CHOICE list, of which he was already a
 member. SB then gave a brief summary of the issues
 currently under discussion on the TEI\-CHOICE list: the
 chief issue was whether or not the semantics of the
 \<choice\> element were restricted to those of the
 
 mirror tags in P4, or whether they
 should be expanded to include e.g. combinations of addition
 and deletion. 
 LB27 sep 04
 propose and document revised content model for
 \<choice\> to choice list; use date of members
 meeting as guillotine for discussion.
+ The URL for the discussion of morphosyntactic tagging
 referred to in the previous minutes is: 
 [http://www.isotc37sc4\.org/doc/ISO TC 37\-4 N046 Proposal\_of\_Morphosyntactic\_annotation\_framework.pdf](http://www.isotc37sc4.org/doc/ISO TC 37-4 N046 Proposal_of_Morphosyntactic_annotation_framework.pdf)
+ The editors had attempted a revised preliminary timetable
 for publication of P5 ([edw81\.html](edw81.html)), but not 
 completed it satisfactorily. Council discussed the intended
 timescale for moving TEI P5 chapters to SourceForge, without
 firm conclusion. It was agreed that some global changes
 (e.g. from id to xml:id) should be made and possibly some
 material flagged with health warnings before moving to
 SF.
+ JF reported that she and DD had discussed the somewhat
 daunting technicalities of registering TEI as a MIME type;
 she felt the action should continue but with a low
 priority.
+ JF had not yet posted a 
 Letter from the
 Chair, but intended to do so before the members meeting. She
 suggested that such notes should go out quarterly, with a
 preliminary request for input for them to Board and Council
 a week before hand: so agreed. SS asked about the status of
 SIGs which had been inactive since proposed at the last
 MM. It was agreed that SIGs had to make their own way in
 the world; also that it might be a good idea to remind
 Members that SIGs could be formed at any time; and how to do
 it. LB pointed to the material already on the website from
 the Nancy meeting.
+ The action on the editors to 
 draft document discussing relationship of TEI Header to
 other meta standards on the basis of material already
 available, to be handed to the TEI Libraries SIG for
 improvement and updating was not discussed; it is
 presumably carried forward


* DD gave an update on the StandOff Markup WG. The plan to produce
 a replacement draft for
 chapter SA by end of July had not been successful, but DD
 had sent a preliminary revision of the chapter to SB on 19
 Sep. LB suggested and Council agreed that it would also be
 helpful to have an updated version of the Issues paper
 ([/activities/SO/sow09\.html](/activities/SO/sow09.html)) presented at the Gent meeting. 
 
 DD/SB
4 Oct 04
 Post updated version of SOW09 to Council
 
SB/DD
4 Oct 04
 Check in a valid and updated version of chapter SA

* SR presented the [report from the Metaworkgroup](https://www.tei-c.org/Vault/Workgroups/META/mew12.html), suggesting that the ODD system was now
 feature\-complete and should not be further modified, other than for error
 fixing. The system supported all requirements so far proposed to
 the Meta workgroup. Council noted that there might be a requirement to
 further modify the ODD language as more use\-cases were identified in
 testing, e.g. to support co\-occurrence constraints, but agreed that it should be frozen
 for at least six months
 to enable testing to proceed.

* LR reported that the TEI\-ISO workgroup had met in August in
 Paris, but that no changes relevant to the FS chapter of P5 had been
 identified. Some work remained to be done on the additional
 tutorial material and terminology of ISO DIS 24610, which Kiyong Lee and
 others have in hand. SB asked about the status of the Feature System
 Declaration: this had not yet been taken up by the ISO group, and the
 proposed new chair for this activity had not yet accepted the
 honour. Council felt that it would be useful to check whether or not
 the P4 FSD and the P5 FSR were interoperable.
 
 LR1 Jan 05
 investigate and report on any incompatibility between P4
 FSD and ISO feature structure representation.

* MD reported that the Manuscript Description Taskforce had not
 responded to his request for comments on the draft circulated in
 July. There remained a small number of outstanding minor
 issues. Council suggested that the workgroup should be given a further
 two weeks to comment and to finalize the draft, after which it should
 be announced to the DM\-L list and to the TEI Manuscript SIG as
 available for comment.
 
 MD/DB4 Oct 04
 finalize draft of MS

* JF reported that there had also been very little progress from
 the workgroup on Physical Bibliography, and that she would raise this
 with the workgroup head. It was suggested that some small and easily achieved
 goals might be addressed (e.g. page image handling), perhaps as
 proposals to SourceForge.

* Council then turned to the feature requests for P5
 so far collected on Source Forge, and discussed what process should be
 used to evaluate them. Lack of time precluding a
 discussion of each one, the editors were asked to propose some way of
 handling them as a group, or of prioritizing them for attention. LB
 asked again for all council
 members to review the proposals and add a comment indicating their
 view. It was hoped that a useful summary could be presented at the Members Meeting.
 
 Editors?To propose a
 method of managing SF feature requests so as to facilitate gathering
 of input from Council members
All14 OctRead all
 feature requests and express an opinion on as many as possible

* CW would be making a single written report from the Council
 would be made, for which he again requested
 input from all active Council members.
 
 All
 send material for Council report to CW
 
 30 Sep 04



A provisional date of 
 Mon 29 Nov
 at 1300 UTC was set for the next call.



