---
title: "TCM04: TEI Council Conference Call 21 Jan 03"
creator: Lou Burnard
date: 2003-01-21
---
# TCM04: TEI Council Conference Call 21 Jan 03



The following were present: Syd Bauman (SB), David
 Birnbaum (DB), Lou Burnard (LB), Matthew Driscoll (MD), David 
 Durand (DD), Tomaz Erjavec (TE), Laurent Romary (LR),
 Susan Schreibman (SS), John Unsworth (JU), Perry Willett (PW),
 Christian Wittern (CW).
 


Actions from [previous meeting](/Activities/Council/Meetings/tcm03.xml) (15 minutes):
 
 Syd was to have revised his notes of [the meeting on 26 June](/Activities/Council/Meetings/tcm02.xml). Deemed to be
 done, or no longer relevant.
 Lou and John to resolve the technical editor position, for SGML migration 
 workgroup. Sarah Wells would be working as technical author
 for Chris Ruotolo and the Migration Workgroup. LB noted that
 the wider issue of support for TEI website authoring was still
 to be addressed. 
 Christian and workgroup to have drafted document on attribute usage \-\- 
 Christian reports that this has been held up: As there are still some open 
 issues on this and other topics in the WG, I would like to postpone this 
 discussion until we have a clearer picture of how the outcome of this 
 question will relate to our recommendations.. A date of Jan 31 was
 agreed. 
  All of us were to articulate namespace policy and review P5 contents
 by this time. Not done. See further item 3, below.
 Joint ISO\-TEI activity on Feature Structures. LR and LB
 had been discussing this. The plan is to propose a
 revision of the current TEI chapters on feature structures and
 feature systems declarations as a new work
 item for ISO TC37/SC4\. The work would be carried out within a
 joint TEI/ISO work group, and is summarized in two documents
 circulated earlier to the council in draft form, which are to be made available on
 the
 website shortly. 
 LB23
 Jan Retag and edit draft documents on FS
 WG. Council approved this work item in principle, and
 would review the draft work plan as soon as possible. The
 proposal has to be submitted to ISO by end February.
 All
14 Feb Review
 proposal for FS WG and send comments to list
 Council noted that participation in ISO workgroups had to be
 self\-funding. LR was asked to provide an estimate of the
 likely cost to the TEI of its participation. 
 LR31 Jan provide estimated
 budget for TEI participation in proposed FS WG






Editors' [proposal for
 handling nontrivial changes to the Guidelines](/Drafts/edw78.html). Council
 proposed this should be put into action, but requested
 clarification as to whether it was intended to use a 
 rolling
 submission model (whereby editors would collect
 proposals and act on them periodically) or a rapid response model
 (where proposals would be acted on individually). CW asked
 whether tei\-tech would be preferable to tei\-l as a vehicle for
 discussion of such proposals. LB
 and JU felt that there should be only one list. 
 Editors28 FebRevise
 EDW78 and circulate new draft for approval
 Review of workplan and timetable for TEI P5 (held over from last 
 meeting). Council felt that it needed more information about the
 implications of the various technical choices proposed here and
 in Sebastian's email before the meeting. It was agreed to form a
 special task force to work on the issues and make specific
 technical proposals. Sebastian was nominated for chair; DD, LR,
 CW volunteered to serve. A progress report would be needed at
 the next call. 
 SPQR20
 Feb Form new work group on architectural issues and
 report back at next conference call.
 Status of Manuscript description work (held over
 from last meeting). JU reported that he had written to Consuelo
 Dutschke, but that she had been taken seriously ill. He had also
 spoken (again) to Merrilee Proffit and received email from
 Ambrosio Piazzoni. He suggested extending the deadline for a
 submission from the TEI MSS WG until the end of February. Council
 felt that this would not be appropriate, since the deadline had
 already been extended twice. Instead, it was agreed that the
 Council should constitute a new task force, jointly chaired by
 MJD and MP, charged with harmonization of the various proposals
 in this area as rapidly as possible. David Birnbaum was
 also volunteered to join the new group. 
 JU
31 Jan to write to CD and AP, requesting them to
 submit the current state of their work to the new task
 force
MJD31 Jan to draft a
 charge for the new taskforce and circulate to the Council. 
 
  Progress on IMLS proposal. PW briefly reported that the
 proposal was on schedule for submission to IMLS by deadline of 1
 Feb. Both he and JU expressed optimism about the outcome of the
 proposal. 
 
 [New
 workgroup on SVG and chapter on Trees/Graphs](http://lists.village.virginia.edu/lists_archive/tei-council/0381.html) proposed by 
 Patrick Durusau. Council agreed that the question of whether or not
 the current chapter on Trees and Graphs should be retained or
 revised was distinct from the question of how
 to integrate other XML schemes such as SVG. It was agreed to ask
 Patrick to constitute a task force which should review current
 work in formalization of tree and graph structures, and make a
 specific recommendation with regard to the current chapter of
 the Guidelines. He should solicit interest in this work on
 TEI\-L; it was suggested that Chris Catton (on the SO markup wg)
 would be a useful contributor. 
 JU31 Jan To convey
 Council's view on proposed wg on trees and graphs to PD
Selection of chair for group to work on Core Tags and
 Schema. Council agreed that this should be a task for the group
 already proposed for Sebastian.
  Update from character encoding workgroup. CW reported
 that the group was drafting a proposal concerning a replacement for SDATA
 entities which it was intended to submit to W3C, hopefully with
 the support of the TEI. This would be available for comment by
 the end of January. 
 All15
 FebTo review and comment on CE WG's proposals concerning
 SDATA when available. The wg was also working on two other
 documents, one to replace the current chapter 4 of P4, and the
 other to define 
 next generation WSDs. These
 drafts should be ready for submission by the end of April. No
 further meetings of the group were planned.
 
  Update from Standoff Markup Workgroup. DD reported that
 drafts of several documents were starting to be circulated on the
 workgroup's discussion list. A new document was planned on the
 rationale behind some of the recommendations. 
 Editors31 Jan to
 make wg drafts available on website
 The full workgroup on SGML/XML migration was due to meet
 in College Park in early February. Chris Ruotolo would report on
 its progress at the next meeting.
 Date of next conference call: 18 March, at the same
 time. The Council would next meet face to face in Oxford, May 16\-17\. 
 LB/SPQR31 Jan check
 arrangements for Oxford meeting
Any Other Business. LB said that he was chairing the
 Programme Committee for this year's Digital Resources in the
 Humanities Conference, to be held at the University of
 Gloucestershire's Cheltenham campus 31 Aug to 3 Sept, and that TEI submissions
 would be very welcome.













