---
layout: page.njk
title: "TCM19: TEI Council Conference Call 09 Sep 05"
date: 2005-09-05
---
# TCM19: TEI Council Conference Call 09 Sep 05



 Call began at 13:03 with SB, LB, JC, JF, NS, SS, PW, and
 
 
 
 CW; LR joined at approximately 13:36
 
 All times are UTC unless otherwise noted.
 
 
  
 
 Review of ActionsThe following action items from the [previous minutes](https://www.tei-c.org/activities/council/meetings/notes-from-tei-council-conference-call-of/)
 were reviewed:JC, HOWTO
* + Draft is done, updates in
	 progress. JC Finish
	 up based on recent discussion on council list; 1 or 2
	 Council members should test\-drive the result. After
	 update based on Council members' input, if any, JC to
	 post to TEI\-L requesting users to test\-drive.
	 2005\-09\-18


MD post summary of comments, etc.
* + LB
	 reports this has been done.


LB
* + reports that he has assassinated a
	 few attributes


JF, cert
* + report
	 posted last night, but still needs to address the
	 specific question of cert, certainty, and exact. Suggested that JF will
	 be finishing up the rationalization of the attributes,
	 but also to post to TEI\-L and raise discussion of
	 certainty in general.


LB
* + not done; waiting on SA


SB, XPointer scheme registration
* + DD
	 has been in touch with Henry Thompson, and has learned
	 that the W3C has yet to get a mechanism for scheme
	 registration going. In the meantime, TEI should announce
	 (to which specific person at the W3C or a list should we
	 announce this?) our intention to register our schemes
	 when such a registration system is available. It is not
	 clear whether a MIME type will be required or not. It
	 was suggested that it might be helpful for TEI to
	 officially inform W3C that we are looking forward to the
	 appearance of such a registration mechanism. CW write a letter to W3C
	 expressing TEI's interest in the completion of an
	 XPointer scheme registry and system for registering
	 schemes.


SB, BIBL
* + deliberately
	 deferred.


others
* — all done.




 
 Review of WG etc. progress
 
 SA: segmentation \& alignmentSB reports that DD sent him a draft of
 sa.odd less than 8 hours ago, and he has
 not read it yet. There will be a slight delay getting it
 merged with current changes and checked in properly. SB
 expects it will be checked in by Monday.
FS: feature structuresLB was recently at the TEI\-ISO WG meeting in Warsaw, and
 reports that FS is now officially a draft international
 standard, and that it received almost unanimous support.
 Much of the credit goes to Kiyong Lee, whom council thanks
 for shepherding this chapter through the sometimes daunting
 challenges of ISO procedure. In Warsaw there was agreement
 that there be a new work item for ISO to do the same thing
 for feature system declaration. This will be part 2 of ISO
 24610\. The current idea is to start with TEI FD as a
 basis, but look at other ontology definition languages,
 other automatic validation tools, etc. Hoping to involve
 some people from the web ontology community. Group will be
 set up under SC4, LB will continue to be liaison.

Report about TEI Council/ W3C I18N collaborationSR has finally officially become an
 invited expert of the
 W3C workgroup charged with the issue of internationalization
 of tagsets, and will be joining their second face\-to\-face
 meeting in Nice in a few days.
Report about TEI I18N activitySR, VL, and JF have made great progress on the draft
 grant
 request to ALLC. An appeal was posted to TEI\-L seeking
 people interested in translating, and about 20 responses were
 received. SR is keeping a database of these interested
 parties. A little translation work has actually already been
 done. Stylesheets are finished.How to incorporate translated ODDs into P5 has yet
 to be
 worked out. SR plans to show some examples at Members'
 Meeting.
 
 SR asks about translations of attributes and things that are
 going to be dropped. We need a mechanism for translators to
 be able to ascertain when the canonical English language
 version is changed. CW would
 like to get a time frame for when things settle down and
 major changes have subsided.
 
 We also discussed the P4\-\>P5 translation stylesheet, which
 SR suggested should be kept up to date with changes to
 P5\.
 
 LB reports a related fact: he has recently received a first
 draft of translation into French of HD from \[??].
 
 There are going to be a lot of terminological issues in
 maintaining translations. Furthermore, we need to be clear
 how we support internationalized examples.
 
 

 
 P5 progress
 
 on Attributes and Datatypes (EDW90\)SB reports that great progress has been made in
 recent
 discussions. The EDW90 data was created under the
 presumption that we would have the capability to declare
 an attribute as a particular datatype and then further
 constrain or relax the allowed values using RelaxNG. Since
 this turns out not to be the case, a second pass through
 the assigned values to attributes (with possible
 modification of datatypes) is required.
 SB
 Re\-assign attribute datatypes without presumption
 of further RelaxNG constraint or relaxationThe previously agreed item that
 tei.data.key should be an
 xsd:Name was reiterated, but SB notes this
 change has not been reflected in EDW90 yet.
 
 
on ClassesClass meeting will be held in Oxford, 26 \& 27 Sep. At the
 meeting we should review the way elements are assigned to
 classes, and, much as EDW90 has for datatypes, come up
 with a semi\-definitive list for classes and element
 assignments to them. The output of this meeting should be
 the source of rewriting ST.

 
 Priorities
 
 * complete datatypes
 LB
 make tagdocs of datatypes themselves
 2005\-09\-23
* complete attributes
 Eds.
 assign attributes to datatypes
* classes
* remove DTD dependencies, rewrite SG
* It is hoped that all of the
 above, including rewrites of SG and ST, can be
 substantially complete by the end of the
 year.
* DI
* terminology
* PB
* SH





 
 Other businessNone.
 
 
MeetingsJF \& SB report that planning for the Members' Meeting
 is going well. After some initial false starts Matt
 Zimmerman seems to be doing an excellent job. Logistics are
 almost completely in place, thanks to the efforts of both
 Matthew and local organizer Anissava Miltenova.The program has been decided upon in
 the greater sense
 (what events there will be, who the speakers are, what is on
 which day), and Matt has even proposed a detailed schedule
 which will hopefully be hammered out in the next 2
 weeks.
 
 SB has recently secured corporate
 sponsorship funding from SyncRO Soft (makers of
 \<oXygen/\>).
 
 
Next CallOur next conference call should occur sometime in
 mid\-November. We will once again use
 http://www.meetomatic.com/calendar.asp to attempt
 scheduling, SR to coordinate.
  
 
 
 
 Call ended at 14:18\.
 
 
  
