---
title: "TEI Council Meeting"
date: 2004-05-15
---
# TEI Council Meeting






Initials Used for People
 
 * SB
Syd Bauman
* AB
Alejandro Bia
* DB
David Birnbaum
* LB
Lou Burnard
* MD
Matthew Driscoll
* DD
David Durand
* JF
Julia Flanders
* SR
Sebastian Rahtz
* LR
Laurent Romary
* CR
Christine Ruotolo
* SS
Susan Schreibman
* NS
Natasha Smith
* JU
John Unsworth
* EV
Edward Vanhoutte
* PW
Perry Willett
* CW
Christian Wittern




All times are local; i.e. CEST (Central European Summer
 Time), or \+02\.


Meeting started at 05\-13 \~14:45 with SB, AB, DB, LB, MD, JF,
 SR, LR, SS, NS, EV, PW, and CW. Day 1 ended at 18:10\. Resumed on
 day 2 (05\-14\) at \~09:14 with same people plus DD (who had
 flight problems and thus missed day 1\), ending at 18:05\.


Council extends warm gratitude to the [Koninklijke Academie voor Nederlandse Taal\-
 en Letterkunde](http://www.kantl.be/) not only for hosting our
 meeting in inspiring surroundings, but also for its
 generosity in providing refreshments \& lunch.





 Items from Previous Meeting
 
 Council reviewed the action items from the conference call of 2004\-03\-29\. (See the
 [notes from that call](/Activities/Council/Meetings/tcm10.xml).)


* CW has contacted Sanskritters; current state of their
 work to be reviewed at this meeting.
* SB reports that MB has sent him mail, needs to follow up.
* DD not present.
* LB reports ODD for MS has been done; review of current
 version is on agenda for this meeting.
* SR reports that customization tests have been done but
 not promulgated.
* DB reports that he discussed collation sequences with
 JF face\-to\-face.
* JF reports proposed charge has been written,
 circulated, and is on the agenda for this meeting.




 MI
 
 Discussed e\-mail from CR to those who
 are on both the Council and the Migration Task Force
 (SB,AB,LB,SS,NS). Portions of this mail are reproduced
 below. As well as the
 points made there, it was noted that many case studies ([MI W 06](https://www.tei-c.org/Vault/Workgroups/MI/miw06.html)) still have
 outstanding comments
 from the copy editor, and Tobias Rischer's checklist needs
 further work.


Council learned indirectly from Daniel Pitti that the grant period
 ended on 2004\-04\-30\. Thus the final report is due to the NEH on
 2004\-07\-30; this report will consist of a description of
 work completed and a financial report.


SS \& NS propose (to Council \& CR) that they (with
 AB \& CR) take charge of contacting the authors of the
 various case studies and reminding them to finish up. They
 will all be at ALLC, so would wrap\-up there.


It was pointed out that the section on P5 is (currently)
 time\-dependant, and probably shouldn't be in what is
 hopefully a static document. After very brief discussion it
 was agreed that these documents do need to be static, as
 there is no further funding to maintain them. Furthermore,
 tools pointed to by these documents need to be pointed to
 statically, i.e. on MI web sub\-site.


There was some discussion of moving the reports (or
 copying them) into somewhere other than /Activities, but no
 resolution was reached.




 Physical Bibliography (PB) Workgroup
 
 Council learned that JF and DB had met in Providence and
 had concluded that the areas of overlap between MS and the
 proposed PB group were most significant in the 
 physDesc and inline elements. They had agreed that it
 made most sense for MS group to continue to work on
 
 physDesc but to communicate first to avoid
 divergence; meanwhile the PB group would draw up a draft
 of inline elements to be discussed in consultation with MS
 taskforce.


Council learned that the PB group hopes that its output
 could be included in P5, whence the aggressive [work\-plan](https://www.tei-c.org/Vault/Workgroups/PB/pba01.html)
 proposed. The group has purposefully assigned itself a very
 limited scope, but plans to identify issues they may wish to
 address later.


After some discussion, Council suggests that, because the
 changes they are likely to suggest are quite limited, that
 they de\-couple their time\-line from that of P5, and instead
 plan to submit one or more specific 
 proposals for change.




 P5
 
 LB presented the current state of P5 (reviewing [edw81](../Drafts/edw81.html)). Reviewed set of for checking chapters.


* Council considered, without definitive resolution,
 the idea of moving HD (ch. 5, 
 teiHeader) to
 
 minor surgery. At least two Council
 members (LR \& PW) anticipate submitting suggestions
 for HD.
* Council noted that PH (ch. 18, primary sources) will
 likely need minor surgery with input from the PB group.
* It was proposed, without definite resolution, to
 move ND (ch. 20, names \& dates) to the
 
 minor surgery category for the
 addition of prosopographic tagging as discussed recently
 on TEI\-L.
* Council agreed that the discussion of the
 relationship between 
 teiHeader and other
 standards should be excised from IH (ch. 24, independent
 header) and moved to HD before IH is deleted.
* Council approved LR as the surgeon for TE
 (ch. 13, terminological databases).
* It was recommended that FT (ch. 22, tables,
 formulae, and graphics) be slated for major surgery, and
 that the SIG on presentation be the surgeon.


It was suggested that 
 somewhere,
 if not in the 


Guidelines, the TEI\-C needs to
 address issues of presentation. A now what? web page was
 suggested: the SIG on Presentation might be requested to
 make a first stab at this.
 
 MD says Menota group has several changes (mostly to PH) to
 suggest. Discussion of call for proposals ensued.




 SourceForge
 
 SR demonstrated a bit of SourceForge. Council considered the
 question which of the
 various SourceForge features we want to use.


Council agreed to concept of using SourceForge artifacts
 for bug tracking, feature requests, etc. Discussion of what
 artifact types there should be deferred for further experimentation.


Council considered the question of whether the ODD source
 of P5 should be moved to the SourceForge CVS tree
 immediately, later on in the P5 development process, or
 after P5 has been released. After much discussion, Council
 recommends that after each chapter is
 
 checked (per edw81\), it be put up on
 SourceForge.


SR asked for input from the Council on what, if anything,
 we wanted on the TEI Knoppix CD.



 Licensing
 
 The Board representative (SR) informed us that the Board
 has voted to use GPL for the Guidelines, and asks Council
 to either accept, recommend to the Board that they reverse
 their decision, or tell the editors to separate the
 section on conformance out of Guidelines so it won't be
 under GPL. Council agreed to the last: to recommend to the
 Board that CF be separated from the Guidelines.


Noting that trademarking the 
 Text Encoding
 Initiative name (and logo, if we had one) is
 even more important in the face of copylefting the
 Guidelines, Council recommended that the Board trademark
 at least the name immediately.
 JF
 Take necessary actions with the Board to get our
 name trademarked
 
 ASAR
 It was noted that asking JU about how to do so
 and what has been done so far would be a good first
 step.





 osx on Windows
 
 LB reports that the developer of the extensions that allow
 osx to build on Windows has received no response from
 OpenJade (the project that maintains OpenSP, of which osx is
 a part). Council agreed that whether or not an
 
 official version makes it through the
 OpenJade project, it should go on the MI/Tools page.




 Sanskrit
 
 CW briefly summarized a report from John Smith ([/activities/CE/cew10\.pdf](/activities/CE/cew10.pdf))


In the ensuing discussion it was pointed out that the
 problem raised and addressed in the report is a general
 linguistic problem, although particularly
 acute in Sanskrit. A morphosyntactic group of TC37 SC4 is also
 working on this and related problems. It was
 pointed out that the general problem is similar to that
 which is encoded by the mirror tags 
 orig and
 
 reg: in general, one of the forms could not be
 automatically generated from the other, and therefore there
 was a need to encode both explicitly.


LB says that he expects P5 to suggest use of
 
 choice for this kind of problem, and in fact to use
 a Sandhi example.



Council thoughts are as follows.
 


* The problem is clearly stated and not restricted to
 Sanskrit: we should therefore seek a general solution
* The solution proposed uses mixed content in a way
 which seems inappropriate
* Sanskrit group should be made aware of related
 TC37/SC4 activities
* Our mechanisms (
 choice) are very general,
 and we'd appreciate their input in refining our
 documentation of it (as
 soon as we have some)


SB
 attempt to enlist the assistance of those on TEI\-L
 most interested in 
 choice to write a working
 paper on the issues surrounding use of it and of
 previous attribute mechanism.
 
 2004\-05\-27




 TD
 
 SR gave the Council a presentation on the current status of
 the ODD system. After the presentation the question of whether or not
 ODD format should rely more heavily on RelaxNG, in
 particular by using 
 rng:pattern instead of
 
 classSpec, was raised.


After much discussion Council concluded by asking that the
 META work\-group further discuss the issue.


It was noted
 that the proposed new modification system recommended the user
 to express modifications in ODD language rather than in
 either DTD or Schema. It was an open question as to whether
 the facility to plug in predefined sets of modifications
 written in DTD language would be retained. 




 I18N
 
 SR presented the mechanism developed by META group in and
 after Paris meeting, using an additional ODD language
 
 patch which is applied as a
 customization when creating a schema.


A single dictionary file (teinames.xml) is used to map names. A
 style\-sheet uses this to transform the ODDs themselves,
 inserting 
 altIdent elements as necessary. A
 different style\-sheet can translate instances; theoretically
 a third could translate (XML syntax) schemas. In discussion,
 it was noted that this dictionary\-based approach did not
 extend to providing translations of the element\-specific
 text such as the 
 gloss or 
 desc sub\-elements.


This was felt to restrict the usefulness of the current system
 for the needs of localizers; some of these concerns might be addressed by a
 more conventional terminological structure.
 LR (as TE surgeon)
 look at current implementation and use it as a test
 case for his revision of the TE module. 



Some discussion of how translations would actually take
 place occurred, but no definitive conclusions reached.




 CE
 
 CW reports CE WG had now produced draft replacements for
 two chapters of P5: 


Languages and character
 sets (CH) and. 
 Representation of non\-standard
 characters and glyphs (WD). The former now included a new
 section on lang identification, which might need some more work.
 
 On the issue of 
 xml:lang, LB requested a
 summary of counter arguments. CW raised issue of reliance on
 external standards.


It was suggested that we consider using
 
 ident (the ID half of the string match
 mechanism TD uses) instead of 
 n on
 
 lang as the mechanism CE uses to associate a
 
 xml:lang value with a 
 language element.


In the ensuing discussion it was noted that the association
 of the language attribute (be it 
 lang or 
 xml:lang) with a 
 language
 element in the 
 teiHeader is optional.


Turning to discussion of WD, council noted that this chapter was
 substantially updated from last year. CW presented the major
 mechanism (using the 
 g element).


The CE WG feels its work is done. Council congratulates them.


LR brings up issue of object language vs. working language.
 SB suggests that 
 ana is the
 appropriate mechanism to encode object language. LB suggests
 that MS's new 
 textLang is.








 FS
 
 LR reported on the progress of
 the joint TEI\-ISO FS work\-group. At the Nancy meeting
 (minutes may be found [here](https://www.tei-c.org/Vault/Workgroups/FS/fsm01.html)), the group
 (following ISO procedures) addressed comments that have been
 received so far. Currently the group has two goals:
 


* produce at least a portion of document for P5
* have FS (not FD) finalized by August


Some (but not all) members of the work\-group will be in
 Lisbon (at [LREC](http://www.lrec-conf.org/lrec2004/index.php)), 
 and they plan to discuss and dispose of the remaining small,
 mostly editorial, issues, and also the larger issue of
 re\-entrancy.


In August there will be a 1\.5 day meeting: 1 half day on
 FS, and 2 half days on FSD. The goal for FSD will be
 the same as with FS: a combined TEI \& ISO standard.


LB explains that the ISO standard format is not the same as
 TEI chapter format. Notes that a fair amount of work (on the
 ISO side) is left to perform the needed integration. There
 will, in the end, still need to be some minor differences
 (e.g., possibly references to the other; ISO version will
 want RelaxNG code as an appendix, etc.)


Question for Council is whether the break with P4
 compatibility is OK. Quite a large portion of the world's
 users of FS, and several implementors were on the WG, all
 think P5 version should go on without backward
 compatibility. Council has no objection to non\-backward
 compatibility.




 MS
 
 MD presented the current [MS fascicule](/activities/MS/FASC-ms.pdf),
 which represents not only the changes the task force
 developed at their meeting (of which [minutes](https://www.tei-c.org/Vault/Workgroups/MS/msm01.xml) are
 available) expressed in the new ODD format, but also
 includes some new changes. One of these changes was the
 subject of significant discussion: since the meeting, the
 
 msLooseDesc element had been dropped, and the
 
 p element is now permitted to intermingle at the
 top level as children of 
 msDescription.


It was pointed out that this content model does not allow
 for fully structured records. Council did not resolve the
 details of this issue but rather concluded that the TF
 should do so as it prepares the proposed chapter for P5\.


The chapter currently has a lot of material and topics that are addressed by other
 modules, and will soon need to be moved. 
 editors
 determine what parts, if any, of MS need to be in
 CO
 



Council learned that the task force had only considered elements to an
 arbitrary depth in the hierarchy (due to lack of time \&
 area\-specific expertise), and that further down the
 hierarchy informal prose (in 
 p elements) is
 permitted. The task force feels that there is a need to extend the
 specificity of specialized elements, i.e., to take the
 hierarchy further down. However, a chapter could be
 delivered for P5 without doing so first.


On the question of rechartering the group as a work\-group
 (as opposed to a task force) Council agreed that the task force should finish up
 proposed chapter for P5 and then write a charge to be reconstituted as a
 WG for hammering out the lower level elements.
 
 MD
 Write examples
 
 2004\-06\-04

MD
 Write new charge for MS WG
 
 2004\-07\-15

MS TF
 Finish up MS chapter
 
 2004\-07\-15






 SO
 
 Council entertained report from DD on the progress of SO.
 In particular, on the immediate goal set forth in Council's
 previous conference 
 call to have decisions noted and written down so that P5
 could proceed. Summary of suggestions:


* ID/IDREF no longer in Guidelines, replaced by
 URIs.
* drop entire extended pointer mechanism
* use XPointer scheme framework
* use 
 xml:id instead of
 
 id
* Guidelines should recommend practice of using
 relative URIs, especially for large sets of files
* drop 
 xptr and 
 xref
* the two pointer schemes (bare name and element())
 are missing a few methods of locating text that we
 dearly want (strings, ranges, regexps). In particular
 xpath(), xpath\-2(), range(), string\-point(),
 regexp().
* the W3C XPointer extension mechanism is very
 cumbersome, so it is recommended we create (register?)
 our own MIME type (xml/TEI), since the fragment
 identifier part of a URI is, according to IETF,
 interpreted based on the MIME\-type
* For IDREFS (where the problem is that the attribute
 value would need to hold multiple URIs) the suggestion
 is to wrap each URI in curly braces


The question arose, with significant discussion, of whether
 or not we should include in the Guidelines any methods that
 have not yet been implemented. 


The work group is soliciting input from Council on the
 following issues, which are listed here along with Council's
 response.


* use 
 xml:id

Council approved
* drop ID/IDREF, but with separate customization
 module to use it
Council discussed the
 question, and charged the work group to examine the issues,
 in particular those of IDREFS, more closely. Council wants
 the options for handling IDREFS (embedded pointing
 sub\-elements or any kind of multiple pointers
 in single attribute value, in which case Council prefers
 space as a separator.
* Renaming 
 target to
 
 href

Also
 referred back to WG
* Establishing a TEI MIME type
Council approves, instructs Board to register it
JF
 register the MIME type
* pointer extensions of our own (if so, which ones)
Council endorses keeping xpath1(), xpath2(),
 string\-point(), and range(), but dropping
 regexp()


With respect to the IDREFS problem, concern was expressed that some processors in
 the
 world will process IDREFS, but none will process the
 proposed {} separated
 list of URIs solution.


Council identified three possible paths to follow:


* keep IDREFS
* use child elements
* separate URIs in a single attribute value

 Although concern was expressed about using a blank
 to separate the multiple URIs in the third method, because escaping blanks in URIs
 is
 already an area where users typically make a lot of
 errors.
 

 Publication of P5
 
 SR suggests continuous releases like OSS, rather than waiting.


CW voices preference that we measure P5 by milestones of
 accomplishment rather than by particular calendar
 dates.


The soon to be publicized call for participation, which
 could point out that now is the time for making suggestions
 for major changes, will have a deadline of 1 Sept for getting
 suggestions reviewed for inclusion in the Members' Meeting
 presentation. Intention is to have a coherent set of ODDs on
 SourceForge by the end of June. Editors to make release
 snapshots at their own judgment.


We hope to issue a call for copy editing by the time of the Members'
 Meeting.


LB suggests that we revisit mapping of modules to chapters,
 in particular CO should be broken up. The P5 update page
 needs to be updated before the call for suggestions, which
 is going out in 2 weeks, is made.
 
 JF
 Write draft updates to P5 update page
 
 2004\-05\-27





LB,SR,CW,SB
 Produce a project plan inventory
 
 2004\-06\-01

LB,SR,CW,SB
 Produce complete project plan
 
 2004\-07\-01






 Budget
 
 The issue of budget for WGs was briefly discussed. The possibility of
 a prosopography WG raised, but consensus was against.





 Next meeting
 
 Next conference call scheduled for 
 Fri 02 Jul 04 at 13:00 UTC.




 e\-mail from CR discussed at meeting
 
 The following is an excerpt from e\-mail which was
 distributed (in print form) at the meeting for
 discussion.


From: Christine Ruotolo \<username@machine.in.virginia.edu\>
 Subject: TEI Migration TF update for Council meeting
 Date: Mon, 10 May 2004 17:49:11 \-0400 (EDT)
 
 ...
 
 \* With the exception of a handful of accidentals and one substantive
 change still to be incorporated, the primary reports (MIW02 and MIW03\) are
 complete. (The change has to do with substituting the hypothetical "long
 s" SDATA example with a "qthorn" example from WWP \-\- Syd will remember
 this exchange from the list \-\- and I will post it along with the errata to
 TEI\-MIGR.)
 
 \* The tools page currently consists of one tool \-\- osx \-\- and even that
 information needs to updated in light of the build for Windows that Lou
 recently announced. Someone needs to gather up the tools mentioned in the
 reports and the case studies and arrange them with accompanying blurbs
 into a new tools page. I believe I agreed to do this a while back and
 have shamefully dropped the ball; I am now underway with this task and
 hope to finish up very soon.
 
 \* A run through the linkbot reveals a number of broken links throughout
 the MI section of the TEI website. In addition to pointers from the case
 studies to the currently non\-existent tools page (with URLs of the type
 "idunno://where/we/will/put/this") there are a few other missing items
 (tei\-emacs bits off the main TEI software page, the early TEILite test
 suite from Tobias) as well as some glitchy little things like broken
 anchors and links to phantom CSS stylesheets. Again, I will
 synthesize and post to TEI\-MIGR, although it might take a bit longer to
 sort out.
 
 So to sum up: written documentation complete, website bits and pieces
 still to be assembled and organized. I'd like to have that assembling and
 organizing done by May 26, which is when Tomaz presents his paper on the
 workgroup activities to LREC. (I will be giving a similar poster session
 at ALLC/ACH a few weeks later.)
 
 Perhaps the Council could discuss what other dissemination strategies, if
 any, are necessary. Assuming that the reports will be sent to NEH and
 announced on TEI\-L, what else do we need to do? Does the Council envision
 the need for any future migration\-related activities?
 
 I'm sorry there hasn't been much progress of late, but I hope this has
 been a useful assessment of current status. I can be reached at any time
 via email or phone (aaa.xxx.nnnn) if you need more info from me. Have a
 great meeting, and I hope to see you all in Sweden next month.
 
 Chris
 




