---
title: "TEI Technical Council Teleconference, 2024-02-09"
date: 2024-02-09
---
# TEI Technical Council Teleconference, 2024-02-09
### Meeting times


6:30am PST / 9:30am EST / 2:30pm UTC / 3:30pm CET
### Present


* Syd Bauman (SB)
* Helena Bermúdez Sabel (HBS)
* Elisa Beshero\-Bondar (EBB, Chair)
* Patricia O'Connor (TOC)
* Gustavo Riva (GR)
* Martina Scholger (MS)
* Joey Takeda (JT)
* Magdalena Turska (MT)
* Raff Viglianti (RV)


### Apologies/Not Present


* Torsten Roeder (TR)
* Sabine Seifert (SS)


Scheduling VF2Fs: Decisions
---------------------------


* VF2F session 1: March 15 / 16
* VF2F session 2: April 12 / 13
* VF2F session 3: April 26 / 27


TEI Conference Buenos Aires
---------------------------


* Dates: **Monday 7th – Friday 11th October 2024**
* MS: Flights are costly already, so it might be necessary to book soon.
* SB: Issue of Council members needing to be present at conference workshops, it would be better to avoid this if Council meets prior to the conference
* EBB: Earlier arrival at BA for Council meetings to avoid Council/Workshop clash
* MT: Option of a VF2F prior to the conference?
* RV: Reconsider the structure of the F2F meetings instead of having another VF2F?
* Option: Split the Council meetings across the conference?
	+ Full day on **Sunday 6th October** and perhaps a half day later during the conference after the workshops have finished. Issue of losing continuity but benefit of letting ideas percolate.


Scheduling the next Guidelines/Stylesheets release
--------------------------------------------------


* Given that we released in Nov, next would typically be around April.
* MS: What do we want in the next release?
* TBD in March.


Status of the TEI\-Lite revision
--------------------------------


* re 4 Feb request from Martin Mueller for update
* Requests "lightweight linguistic annotation" allowing @lemma and @pos
* MT: No agreement yet on the precise course of action. Suggestion: A proposed deadline so everyone has a look and then we decide together which elements stay and what goes? And then we discuss it in VF2F?
* TEI Board members also involved with TEI Lite:
	+ Wolfgang Meier is liaison with e\-editiones who are working with TEI Lite
	+ E\-editions got someone (Rolf Wissmann) to be in charge of this project in e\-editiones, since there is already a lot of work done under codename TEI Vanilla
	+ Main point is that e\-editiones do **not** come up with their own customisation ie. Vanilla and Lite
* **Action on EBB:** Schedule time on the Saturday of the VF2F to decide on TEI Lite. Review discussion/notes on Lite discussion at Council meeting in Guelph.
* JT: Make this discussion more transparent by having a ticket on GitHub for people like Martin Mueller to follow the actionable tasks that arise from the discussion.
* **Resource**: MT’s [spreadsheet comparing TEI Lite and SimplePrint elements](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1ft7Pm6MUksHemB9-33RHIyVua4KBXYkG_XV0xCocXSQ/edit#gid=0)


**C**omputer **M**ediated **C**ommunication update
--------------------------------------------------


* Ticket [\#1955](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1955)
* New chapter initiated by the CMC\-SIG, further development by two of its lead members (Harald Lüngen and Michael Beißwenger), Peter Stadler, SB, and (while she was on Council) Jessica Lu.
* Intended for encoding corpora of things like X(Twitter), e\-mail, Instagram, Facebook, etc., and (especially, in our case) GitHub Issues (thanks JT!).
* We need to consider [the chapter](https://bauman.zapto.org/~syd/temp/CMC/Guidelines-web/en/html/CMC.html) for inclusion in the *Guidelines*.
* See e\-mail “CMC time!” from SB on Fri 02 Feb 24\.
* Council discussion:
	+ SB: Old ticket, really behind on this issue. Needs a concerted effort to get this chapter ready to go.
	+ EBB: Location of where we leave comments matters, needs to be on the main TEI repo. Need to collect comments to move this along.
	+ EBB: Wants to add encoding for reactions \+ quantity of reactions to posts (e.g. thumbs\-ups, hearts, etc).
	+ **Action on SB:** Move cmc\-features branch from CMC\-SIG to our repo by 1st VF2F.
	+ RV: Let’s add our comments and open related tickets prior to the VF2F so we can focus on discussion.
	+ Discussion was primarily in the CMC\-SIG and the meetings/discussion wasn’t minuted.
	+ 1 new element and 3 or 4 new attributes being introduced by this chapter.
	+ EBB: Suggestion to have this as the first topic in the next upcoming VF2F.
	+ JT: Lots of CMC encoded TEI in the artifacts section in this link:  [https://github.com/joeytakeda/issue\-backup/actions/runs/7821230466](https://github.com/joeytakeda/issue-backup/actions/runs/7821230466)
	+ JT has represented every repo's issues in CMC. Let's take a look at it to see if its fully conformant.
	+ SB: We of course need to try this on Slack, too. And other platforms (Twitter, Instagram, Tik\-Tok, Facebook, etc.) and see if it works.
	+ EBB: Let’s ask Anna Sofia Lippolis (the TEI Communications Officer) to try it on the TEI Twitter and Mastodon accounts.


ATOP report
-----------


* See e\-mail “ATOP TF down one” from SB on Thu 08 Feb 24\.
* **Action on EBB** to go to Board to see if David Maus was waiting on support from TEI Board
* SB: Technical issues could be insurmountable.
* RV: ODD documentation should be developed as a detailed technical spec document, not a chapter in the Guidelines (the content is not really for the target audience of the Guidelines).
* We don’t have similar examples of more technical documentation in the Guidelines.
* SB: Maybe it's more for an Appendix (shouldn't be removed from Guidelines)
* RV: Why wasn't development more opinionated from within the ATOP group rather than waiting for Council? Suggestion to progress with the implementation instead of following the step by step guidance of the Council?
* Rewriting the chapter from top to bottom wasn't really the original plan. The chapter should be defining the language, not describing it.


Encoding letterheads and pre\-printed forms
-------------------------------------------


* SS, EBB, JT, and Peter Stadler met and discussed this in January. Council should discuss in detail when SS is present
* Related tickets:
	+ \#2457 <https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/2457>
	+ \#2458 <https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/2458>
* Progress in considering how to represent writing blocks in forms and letterheads in a meaningful way.
* JT: Thinking of this as a potential SIG, would there be more people interested in this \- perhaps a splinter group of the Correspondence SIG?


GIS work group followup (JT)
----------------------------


* [Charge for GIS working group](https://docs.google.com/document/u/0/d/1pdbfKNsrskUvZ_AXa3Cnj4AS9LdleRrS5ZVjdyOILIQ/edit) (Council approved last month)
* Finding people for the working group?
* Working on an outline of what the work in the group will involve
* JT will post in Slack’s general channel to invite Council interest in joining the Working Group
* **Action on EBB:** post about the new GIS working group [https://tei\-c.org/activities/workgroups/](https://tei-c.org/activities/workgroups/)


Big Ticket for test suite?
--------------------------


* Ticket [\#658](https://github.com/TEIC/Stylesheets/issues/658). Note: GitHub only allows 10 people assigned to it. **Action on HBS:** add the information already retrieved in November’s Stylesheet meeting.
* HBS: In progress but not finished yet.
* EBB: Might be space to work on this together at the VF2Fs


Schematron
----------


* Context should be required for Schematron rules in ODD: [\#2510](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/2510)
	+ **Council decision December 2023:** Do not deprecate on [\#2513](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/pull/2513), and create a new ticket for a Schematron QuickFix or an XSLT program to help users comply with new rule.
* Updating build process to use SchXslt for abstract patterns and setting attributes as context nodes
	+ [PR 2509](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/pull/2509)
	+ This is a change to how we process Schematron.
	+ Can we get some people to test: Build Guidelines locally, make sure that schematron works. And try your own local customisations with it.
	+ This makes a lot easier to deal with [\#1981](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1981) (handling abstract patterns)
	+ JT: Does this mean that anyone processing the Guidelines with the skeleton implementation, it will not work?
	+ SB: Not sure if it will crash or break or just not work. It would be good to test if it breaks or not, so we can let people know either way.
	+ **Action on JT:** Volunteered to test.
