---
title: "TEI Technical Council Teleconference, 2022-01-14"
date: 2022-01-14
---
# TEI Technical Council Teleconference, 2022-01-14
**Meeting Times:**


* 15:00Z / 7am PST / 10am EST / 3pm BST / 4pm CEST
* Started:     15:06Z    Ended:    16:31Z


**Present:**
* Syd Bauman (SB)
* Helena Bermúdez Sabel (HBS)
* Elisa Beshero\-Bondar (EBB)
* Elli Bleeker (EB)
* Hugh Cayless (HC)
* Janelle Jenstad (JJ)
* Martina Scholger (MS, Chair)
* Sabine Seifert (SS)
* Peter Stadler (PS)
* Magdalena Turska (MT, left @ \~16:00Z)
* Raff Viglianti (RV)


Meeting minutes previous month ([December](https://tei-c.org/activities/council/meetings/tei-technical-council-teleconference-2021-12-09/))
 


Welcome to new members: SS \& EB
--------------------------------


New meeting times
-----------------


* Every second Friday of the month, 15:00 UTC


Stylesheets meeting times
-------------------------


* Every 4th Friday of the month, also 15:00 UTC (Sorry, Martin Holmes)


(V)F2F meeting 2022
-------------------


* Friday, April 1: North American group, 20:00–23:00 UTC
* Saturday, April 2: European group, 9:00–12:00 UTC
* Saturday, April 3: Full Council, 14:00–18:00 UTC


Stylesheets Task Force
----------------------


* EBB, HBS, JJ, and SS have not yet written the charge for the task force.
* EBB will arrange a Zoom for charge\-writing.
* Newly due on **Fri 28 Jan 22**
* Suggestion: add reference to Martin Holmes’ paper from the last TEI conference, if it is available; if not, perhaps include pointer to his slides or copy over some of his key points
* JJ has asked Martin Holmes for his paper and/or slides


Need new Chair for the Stylesheets Group
----------------------------------------


* PS is not available
* One possibility—ask NC
* HBS available, but dubious about performing the “which ticket” portion
* Suggestion to have SB assist HBS for next few months


Brown LISTSERV
--------------


* Elli Mylonas has retired from Brown U. We should think of migrating TEI\-L from Brown.
	+ SB has checked in with Peter DiCamillo, the Brown University Listmaster: he’ll be there for 2 more years, and is a friend of the TEI. We can keep the list for another year or 2, but after that would either have to find someone at Brown to take it over or move it elsewhere.
	+ E.g., migrate to something controlled by TEI on the TEI HumaNum server (something we have always wanted to do).
	+ PS: our lists are scattered, and we should consolidate them. tei\-council list is running from ADHO, for example. Infrastructure group should take this on. Migration is a big charge.
	+ SB \& Kevin Hawkins were involved in the last attempted migration \~10 years ago.
	+ Board should be involved.
	+ Consider the choice of server carefully—choosing a Listserv server will make the migration much easier.
	+ Conversion of Listserv to Mailman is a non\-trivial migration challenge. Challenge is moving list of subscribers and archive (which is in a plain\-text, but non\-standard format).
	+ **Action on MS** to take this to the Infrastructure Group \+ Board next week, form a task force to investigate the options.


TCW32
-----


* Checking pointers document: [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1nAi\_6pB1ayTV3SYAsrf8InKL1T5n8DAdgdhf\-o5RSM8/edit?pli\=1](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1nAi_6pB1ayTV3SYAsrf8InKL1T5n8DAdgdhf-o5RSM8/edit?pli=1)
	+ testing examples \#10 and \#15 (EBB completed \#10, will complete \#15 in Dec)
	+ testing examples \#17, \#18, \#19 (now MS, HBS, and HBS, respectively)
	+ proofreading prose (JJ is still working on it)
	+ MS \& SB need to talk about errors example \#09 (and \#08\) (SB \& MS)
	+ Checking over the entire document (JC)
	+ work on \#11 and new, similar but more thorough, example (SB \& RV)
	+ SB is writing a special\-purpose XSL driver \& CSS stylesheet, because it looks so awful out of the standard Stylesheets.
	+ Publish end of February


AOB
---


* HC agreed to present the translation tool at the next meeting.


Issues from SVF2F meeting
-------------------------




| No. | Group | Title | Comment |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| \#2067 | A | [@assertedValue of \<certainty\> should also accept pointers](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/2067) | Subgroup prompts original poster to respond to SB comment of 2020\-12\-13 Council → 2022\-01\-14: Original poster has responded and likes SB's idea. How to implement? customization ODD or Branch? SB will figure this out, leaning to customization ODD. |
| \#2072 | A | [change the content model of exemplum](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/2072) | Subgroup suggestion: Let's introduce exemplumGrp because we have a considerable number of exempla with accompanying prose. Also this is analogous to noteGrp, etc. But this might open up a can of worms for processing. Council → 2022\-01\-14: Closing ticket. Consolidating work on \#1933 to implement exemplumGrp |
| \#2084 | A | [moderately problematic issues in SATS](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/2084) | Subgroup suggests additional Council members join HC in reviewing the checklist, especially RV (if available). Council → 2022\-01\-14: poke HC |
| \#2085 | A | [re\-defining Node in SATS?](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/2085) | ditto Council → 2022\-01\-14: poke HC |
| \#2086 | A | [uber\-ticket for SATS](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/2086) | ditto \[here be dragons] Council → 2022\-01\-14: poke HC |
| \#2090 | B | [per\-document defaults (of attribute values)](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/2090) | totally sensible workflow\-wise but do we need it in the standard? This introduces some convenience but not something meaningful from a modelling perspective. Council → 2022\-01\-14: reconsider for P6 |


 