---
title: "TEI Council Meeting"
creator: James Cummings
date: 2007-08-02
---
# TEI Council Meeting






The TEI Council teleconference meeting took place on Thursday 2 August at 12:00 UTC.


Participants: Syd Bauman (SB), David Birnbaum (DB), Tone Merete Bruvik (TMB), Lou
 Burnard
 (LB), James Cummings (Minutes;JC), Matthew Driscoll (MD), Dan O'Donnel (DO), Sebastian
 Rahtz (SR), Conal Tuohy (CT), John Walsh (JW), and Christian Wittern (Chair;CW).


Council members unable to participate: Arianna Ciula (AC), Laurent Romary (LR), Dot
 Porter (DP). 





Open action items
 
 
 CW reviewed the action items from the previous minutes. 



Eds Implement Board decision with regard to title page. 2007\-07\-20* Still to do: 
 LB Implement Board decision with regard to title page.
 
 2007\-08\-15

CW Draft list of workgroups and their members for editors. 2007\-08\-01* Done; LB to edit and integrate. 
 LB Integrate list of workgroups and members into Guidelines.
 
 2007\-09\-01

SB move \<postscript\> to a free standing ODD. 2007\-08\-01* SB reported this had been done. 
 SB Integrate \<postscript\> ODD into Guidelines. 
 2007\-08\-04

SB Post reminder of the current \<div\> problems to council list.
 2007\-07\-20* SB reported this had been done, and after discussion problems fixed in ODD. No
 actions arising.

JW Rewrite rendition recommendations and evaluate whether possible for
 P5 1\.0 2007\-08\-01* JW (who arrived just before this item) reported that he sent out a revised
 recommendation the previous night. Most of council had read this, and JW summarised
 it
 briefly before council voting unanimously to include it in P5 1\.0\. LB/JW tasked with
 integrating it into the Guidelines. 
 LB/JW Integrate revised rendition recommendations into Guidelines.
 
 2007\-09\-01

LB Prepare the ground for changes to rendition/@rend/@rendRef in P5 1\.1
 if JW's recommendations are unable to be included in P5 1\.0 2007\-08\-01* LB will do this as part of the above action item.

LB, CT, DP (and ALL) Discuss work on facsimile markup on council
 list. 2007\-07\-24* There has been much discussion on the Council list and the Council agreed that
 this needed to make it into P5 1\.0 in some form.

LB, CT, DP Hammer out final P5 1\.0 draft of facsimile markup. 2007\-08\-01* CT summarised the most recent proposal for council. Linking with @corresp was
 discussed and both CT and LB wish a more specific attribute. LB/CT to continue work
 on
 this (discussing where appropriate on Council list)
 until 15 August. LB asked whether the idea was to
 produce an entirely new module or expand an existing
 one. His view was this material might well be located in the
 transcription of primary sources module; there was
 general agreement to this. It was agreed that there should be a
 simple system that is easy to use, but that this must scale well. SR had concerns
 about what units are used
 for the @coords attribute and how this related to the surface element. CT explained
 that the proposal has been significantly shortened and
 simplified. He will
 re\-encode the old examples to validate against the new draft so that it will be
 clearer for people to understand. Council was supportive of the work, and agreed that
 this should in some form make it into P5 1\.0\.
 CT Re\-implement the earlier facsimile examples in most recent
 proposal.
 2007\-08\-15

LB, CT, DP Produce P5 1\.0 Draft of facsimile markup based on
 Council discussion and integrate with Guidelines. 
 2007\-09\-01

SB Make concrete proposal with regard to merging of Corpus chapter into
 DS or teiCorpus/teiGroup. 2007\-07\-20* SB reports that he hasn't done this and queried its due date. DO suggested that we
 should let this go, and SR and others concurred. This will be postponed until P5 1\.1\.
 It was suggested that any new significant technical revisions that occur to Council
 members during their revisions should be filed in Trac for later consideration as
 part
 of P5 1\.1\. 
 All Any new significant technical revisions not already under
 consideration by Council should be added to trac for P5 1\.1 to keep track of these
 ideas as they occur to us in P5 1\.0 revisions. 
 ongoing

LB Implement any council\-approved recommendations concerning the merging
 of Corpus into DS. 2007\-08\-01* Postponed for further consideration P5 1\.1\. No actions arising.

DB, TMB, SB, LB Review prose of NH and discuss on council list from 1
 August, providing rewritten chapter by mid August. 2007\-08\-15* SB suggests delaying the due date until 2007\-09\-01\. LB reconfirmed that revisions
 to this chapter would not mean that it would define a new module or significantly
 alter existing modules. 
 DB, TMB, SB, LB Rewrite NH chapter as needed. 
 2007\-09\-01

LR Provide any further changes to Dictionary chapter in light of
 discussion and submit to Eds. 2007\-08\-1* It was reported that revisions to the Dictionary chapter have been made and that
 this action is now closed. However, it was noted that Council may wish to reassess
 certain aspects of the chapter at P5 1\.1\. 
 EdsEditors to integrate final Dictionary revisions into Guidelines,
 checking language, etc. 
 2007\-09\-01

LB To continue to encourage community feedback (on Persons, Places,
 Names and Dates) until 2007\-07\-27* It was reported that this was done, and although comments were received, the
 draft was generally well\-thought of by the community.

LB Revise person/places draft with regard to TEI Community comment,
 announce final draft version on mailing list. 2007\-08\-01* LB reported that this had been completed and the draft was already revised and
 integrated with the Guidelines. No actions arising.

LB Report back to council on any changes to FSD/FS and if necessary
 rationalise the TEI version. 2007\-08\-15* LB reported that there had been no progress so far because the ISO meeting had
 not yet taken place. LB will report on the meeting when it happens.
 LB Report back to council on any changes to FSD/FS and if necessary
 rationalise the TEI version. 
 2007\-09\-01

LB Revise add/del/supplied issues. 2007\-08\-01* LB had posted a summary of some of the issues; DO had offered to produce a new draft
 integrating these
 with his own ideas for discussion on the list.
 DO Produce revised proposal about what to do with
 add/del/supplied/edInt/etc. issues 
 2007\-08\-21

ALL Comment on revised add/del/supplied draft on Council mailing
 list. 
 2007\-08\-25

LB Integrate add/del/supplied revisions (after Council input) to the
 Guidelines 
 2007\-09\-01

JC, DP Report back to council on progress of formatting of the
 Guidelines so far and any outstanding issues 2007\-08\-03* JC will be emailing council in the next couple days
 to give an update on progress with this item and issues arrising. 
 JC, DPReport back to council on progress of formatting of the
 Guidelines so far and any outstanding issues 
 2007\-08\-06

JC, DP All issues should be resolved and/or reported to Sebastian and/or
 Council 2007\-09\-07* This item is not due yet and is in progress. 
 JC, DPAll issues should be resolved and/or reported to Sebastian
 and/or Council 
 2007\-09\-07

DO Report back to Council with proposal for any changes to app/rdg
 2007\-07\-20* DO had reported on this issue. With SB's assistance,
 DO will work on an ODD and see if the
 proposals break anything. 
 DO, SB Produce revised proposal about what to do with app/rdg issues
 
 2007\-08\-21

ALL Comment on revised app/rdg draft on Council mailing list.
 
 2007\-08\-25

SB Integrate revisions (after Council input) to the Guidelines
 
 2007\-09\-01

SB to finalise new \<said\> element and add to guidelines.
 2007\-08\-01* SB reported that this had been done.

ALL Provide comments on DB's proposals for modelling stemmata.
 2007\-07\-20* Council had provided comments on this on the mailing list. DB summarised some of
 them, and suggested that using modifications as suggested by CT/JC with regard to
 linking and AC with regard to relation to indicate contamination. LB to test an
 implementation by 2007\-09\-01
 LB Integrate changes necessary for a working implementation for
 modelling of manuscript stemmata, as proposed on council list.
 
 2007\-09\-01




 
 Sorting out handDesc vs handList
 
 
 There was a fair bit of discussion concerning this. MD suggested killing off one or
 the
 other. LB felt that handDesc was general whereas handList is a structured list of
 hands.
 There was contention of hand vs handNote with the suggestion from MD that one of these
 could do the job of the other just as well. Various options and differences were
 discussed. It was agreed that handNote and hand should be
 merged and that handDesc should include handList or p. LB agreed to swiftly implement
 this. 
 LBImplement rationalisation of handDesc/handList/hand, removing handNote
 
 2007\-08\-08






 
 Timetable
 
 
 CW presented a timetable proposed by the planning subcommittee. The overall
 timetable for this is: 


4 August* Feature freeze (more or less)
4 August \- 7 September* Final integration of last proposed items (e.g. facsimile) in chapters and review
 (see below)
11 September \- 16 September* final council review sessions we will put the chapters to vote 1 by 1
15 September \- 19 October* All text locked for single master edit, assigned to Lou
15 September \- 19 October* All final decisions about layout, publication, web site, assigned to Syd
20 \- 30 October* Implementation of publications, based on Syd's
 decisions, assigned to Sebastian

 There was
 a fair bit of discussion concerning the locking of the
 text for single master edit and the assigning of this to a
 single editor for the period of 15 September \- 19
 October. SB felt that this undermined the point of having
 two editors. The planning subcommittee had proposed this
 partly to reduce the overhead of cross\-atlantic editing;
 partly to put more effort into resolving publication
 issues, whether online or otherwise. JC mentioned that in
 open source software projects it was common practice for
 a lead developer to lock the code shortly before release,
 so as to deter a barrage of possibly conflicting edits at
 the last moment. By the
 time this happens the text should basically be fixed, and
 what should be submitted to LB are bug reports, typos and
 places where minor rephrasing is needed. No major editing
 should be taking place. 
 
 
 Details of the chapter triage are at
 http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/wiki/Review. 
 The chapter review task is as follows: Read the chapter again
 and fix anything which looks wrong, in one of two ways:


* writing replacement lines/paragraphs/sections and
 sending them to LB
* editing the source ODD file in situ, if you are sure you know what you are doing,
 and resubmitting to Subversion.

 What is expressly not allowed is to say "this section looks wrong, it needs a
 rewrite". This is only acceptable 
 in extremis. If you edit the ODD, you should be careful to work in a way which allows someone
 else to see the differences.
 Proposals for major (schema) changes should be recorded in
 trac for P5 1\.1\.
 
 
  In
 the trac list for review, the last column has more ? if the chapter is deemed to have
 more
 work to do, and a \* if it is regarded as of major importance. 
 ALL Review chapters and correct mistakes as per
 http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/wiki/Review from 
 2007\-08\-04 until 2007\-09\-07






 
 Next Meeting
 
 
 The next teleconference was not scheduled and CW will put up a meetomatic survey to
 determine the best date. It will, however be at 12pm noon UTC. This will be:
  06:00
 MDT in Calgary,
  07:00 CDT in Chicago,
  08:00 EDT in New York,
  13:00 BST in
 London,
  14:00 CEST in Paris,
  21:00 JST in Kyoto, and
  Wed 18 July, 00:00
 NZST in Wellington.
 
CW CW to set date for next
 meeting using meetomatic, and announce by 
 2007\-08\-10







