---
layout: page.njk
title: "TEI Council Meeting"
creator: James Cummings
---
# TEI Council Meeting






The TEI Council teleconference meeting took place on Friday 15 June at 12:00 UTC.


Participants: Syd Bauman (SB), David Birnbaum (DB), Lou Burnard (LB), Arianna Ciula
 (AC), James Cummings (Minutes;JC), Matthew Driscoll (MD), Dan O'Donnel (DO), Dot Porter
 (Left early;DP), Sebastian Rahtz (SR), Laurent Romary (Left early;LR), Conal Tuohy
 (CT), John Walsh (JW), and Christian Wittern (Chair;CW).


Council members unable to participate: Tone Merete Bruvik (TMB)





Open action items
 
 
 CW reviewed action items from the Great Unified Report on progress made since the
 last
 meeting ([http://lists.village.virginia.edu/pipermail/tei\-council/2007/003098\.html](http://lists.village.virginia.edu/pipermail/tei-council/2007/003098.html)). Most items in the Progress Report section were discussed:


0 \-\- Change name of msDescription to msDesc and mention its existence in HD* SB reports that this has been done.
1 \-\- TRAC 329: <http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/329> 
 Merge att.datable and att.dateTime, using new name for value/dateValue* SB reports that this has been done as part of the person/place workgroup
2 \-\- TRAC 332: <http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/332> 
 proposal for dropping witDetail. Change witList to witGroup, allow it to self\-nest,
 and drop included...* DO hadn't completed this. LB circulated concerns about this on 2007\-05\-19, which
 was discussed on 2007\-05\-21, confirming LB's changes. 
 LB Confirm trac \#332 (witList/witDetail) is properly resolved.
 
 2007\-07\-13
3 \-\- TRAC 349: <http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/349> Raise
 issue of editors' names on title page at Board* DO reported that a vote had taken place on this and that it was approved by a
 majority of the Board. The decision was to have the TEI Consortium be the authors
 of
 the work, but DO will circulate the exact wording and Board decision. 
 
 DO Circulate Board decision with regard to title page and exact wording to Council.
 
 2007\-06\-22

Eds Implement Board decision with regard to title page.
 
 2007\-07\-13
4 \-\- TRAC 331: <http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/331> Solve
 the add/del/supplied/supress/substitution issue, including checking wording of
 chapter; LB to report back* Proposal from MD had been circulated at Berlin; MD,
 DO, and LB had not yet had time to progress this. Action
 continuing.
5 \-\- TRAC 330: <http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/330> Work
 on AB: tweak the parts of AB that can stay (send results to editors), indicate which
 parts need to be re\-written (post to Trac)* DO was originally assigned this, but LB claims this as an editors job to be done
 near date of publication. CW (as Council chair) was
 requested to draft a
 list of workgroups and their members for editors to
 include in appendix. 
 Three tasks here:
 <http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/330>,
 <http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/348>,
 <http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/348>CW Draft list of workgroups and their members for editors.
 
 2007\-08\-01
6 \-\- Improve wording discussing use of del in an example transcription * DP reminded Council how this issue arose. LB reports that this was the use of gap
 to mark something a transcriber of speech had left something out. 
 LB Confirm the gap in transcribed speech example and surrounding text
 has been clarified. 
 2007\-07\-13
7 \-\- Find out ISBD recommendations, and suggest re\-wording of paragraph in HD * DP reported that she had had investigated and had no recommendations for
 re\-wording of HD.
8 \-\- TRAC 338: <http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/338> 
 Regularize glosses on \*specs passim * LB reported on the process suggested on the Council mailing list. SB pointed out
 the inconsistencies in gloss and desc. 
 SB Regularize glosses on \*specs passim.
 2007\-07\-13
9 \-\- Create model.headLike * SB reports that LB has already done this.
10 \-\- DP to send rest of errors to Council list * DP reports that this has been done. LB reports that the errors have now been
 corrected.
11 \-\- Recommend keeping 'machine\-readable transcription' or not* DP recommended removing it. LB justified its inclusion and SB reminded DO that
 this applies only the TEI file not the output. DP/JW accept that we leave the
 recommendation but agree with SB that a good compromise is to remove the word
 'strongly'. Council suggests the Editors tone down the
 recommendation. 
 Eds Review current wording in light of
 Council's recommendation. 
 2007\-07\-13
12 \-\- Fix wording in description of egXML* DB reminded the Council that egXML claims to contain well\-formed XML, but only
 does so if egXML is counted as the root element. The current wording needs to be
 rephrased. 
 DB Propose a revision of egXML desc and send it to LB.
 
 2007\-07\-13
13 \-\- Post errors noticed in VE * JW reported this had been completed. 
 LB Ensure errors reported by JW in VE have been corrected.
 
 2007\-07\-13
14 \-\- Add discussion of PIs to CO.8\.2\.2 * SR clarified the purpose of this action (to mention
 that PIs provide an alternative to use of the divGen
 element). LB now understands and will do it. 
 LB Add discussion of PIs to CO.8\.2\.2\. 
 2007\-07\-13
15 \- 19 Skipped as all still to do* As 15\-19 are all on SB to do and have not been completed, discussion of them was
 bypassed. 
 SBChange q to quote in MS.
 2007\-07\-13

SB Finish 3066 to 4646 update.
 2007\-07\-27

SB create second said proposal for q and said, post both.
 
 2007\-07\-13

SB move postscript to a free standing ODD. 
 2007\-07\-13

SB remove wording of description of resp in prose PH.1\.2 \&
 PH.1\.3\. 
 2007\-07\-13
20 \-\- TRAC 339: <http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/339> 
 Stemma modeling using graph elements* MD/DB haven't had time to do this yet but will make a concerted effort and
 understand the task at hand. If not done by deadline, it will be dropped for P5 1\.0,
 which Council agreed would be a shame. 
 MD/DB Stemma modeling using graph elements. 
 2007\-07\-13
21 \-\- TRAC 334: <http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/334> 
 Discussion of @rend, possibilities of @rendRef * JW related the concern as expressed on TEI\-L that changing @rend would not be
 well\-received by the TEI community. LB agreed that @rendRef (or similar) would be
 beneficial. All agreed that the TEI says nothing
 concerning output; @rend and @rendRef are alternative
 ways of documenting rendition of the source text. LB points out that more detailed
 reconsideration of global attributes is a different task. SR suggests a new module
 for
 rendition which would include @rendRef. LB notes that
 there may be insufficient time to produce a
 new module for P5 1\.0, but that they could prepare the way through warnings and
 discussion of the problem in P5 1\.0\. 
 JW Rewrite rendition recommendations and evaluate whether possible
 for P5 1\.0\. 
 2007\-08\-01

LB Prepare the ground for changes to rendition/@rend/@rendRef in P5
 1\.1 if JW's recommendations cannot be included in P5 1\.0\.
 
 2007\-08\-01




 
 To Discuss
 
 
 TRAC 291: <http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/291> Facsimile
 Markup \-\- Text and Image encoding* CT reports that this is on track for P5 1\.0\. Council agreed that this is
 something that the TEI community wants. SB reminds Council that simplicity is what
 is
 needed for P5 1\.0\. LB was concerned about the timescale. CT reported on the work which
 has been done and asked Council to review at least the Comenius example in the next
 two weeks and comment to Council mailing list. He will then revise in light of this
 response. If not completed and submitted to editors by 2007\-08\-01, then it will not
 be
 included in P5 1\.0\. 
 ALL Review work on facsimile markup
 <http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/291>, especially Comenius example, report
 to Council list. 
 2007\-06\-29

CT Redraft facsimile markup material in response to Council concerns.
 
 2007\-08\-01
TRAC 333: <http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/333> Merge
 Corpus chapter into DS* LB asked for clarification of this action. Concrete
 suggestions for change were needed. SB, DP,
 and MD, and any other Council members present will
 discuss next week whilst in Victoria for the DHSI and come up
 with some specific proposals. 
 SB, DP, MD Discuss merging of Corpus chapter in DS, and if necessary
 come up with concrete proposals for implementation (or not).
 
 2007\-06\-29

LB Implement any recommendations concerning the merging of
 Corpus into DS.
 2007\-07\-13
TRAC 341: <http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/341> Rethink ST
 contents and its position in the Guidelines* DB reported that after examination he can't see where else it can go in the
 Guidelines. It must be before the chapters which follow it. SB recommended removing
 discussions of schema languages from this chapter and placing them elsewhere. 
 LB Revise ST to be more ODD focused and move any schema specific
 material to chapter on ODD specification. 
 2007\-07\-13
TRAC 343: <http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/343> Rework NH
 chapter* As TMB was not present, SB reported on her behalf that work is progressing on
 this. SB summarised issues of how the Guidelines deal with problems of overlap in
 P5
 and that the chapter doesn't differentiate them or make clear recommendations. SB
 suggests making this a separate module, removing next/prev/part from SA. Since SB
 doesn't have the time to work on this TMB should provide concrete proposals to Council
 list by 1 July. Concern was expressed at the
 feasibility of both creating a new module and making
 major changes in an existing one (SA) in the time available. 
 TMB Provide concrete proposals to Council list on necessary
 reorganisation/reworking of NH. 
 2007\-07\-01
Dictionary Chapter* LR reported on the progress of the Dictionary chapter. Revision should be
 finished in 2 weeks, after which the Editors will review
 the material. 
 LR Complete final revision of Dictionary chapter and submit to
 Editors in two weeks. 
 2007\-06\-29

Eds Editors to integrate final Dictionary revisions into
 Guidelines. 
 2007\-07\-13




 
 Reports
 
 
 
Person/Places Meeting LB reported on the Person/Places meeting that took
 place at CCH. He has finished a draft based on the recommendations of this and
 the previous meetings. As this is a significant revision to existing
 person/place/organisation markup he desires Council and TEI Community comment on the
 draft. Hence, he has repurposed an existing mailing list to use as a forum for such
 discussion. CW queried the timeframe for the entire process. LB said that the draft
 would be posted and announced to Council and TEI\-L with people directed to comment
 on
 that mailing list. This consultation period will last for just under a month. 
 LB Post person/places draft, and announce its existence to TEI\-L
 directing community to comment on that mailing list asap.
 2007\-06\-18

ALL Comment on new draft of person/places recommendations on that
 mailing list as directed by LB's public announcement.
 2007\-07\-13

LB Revise person/places draft with regard to TEI Community comment,
 announce final draft version on mailing list.
 2007\-08\-01





ISO FSD activity LR reported on the ISO FSD activity and TEI involvement
 with that. There is an upcoming ISO meeting concerning it where a final draft is
 desireable. It was suggested that we either keep it basically as it is, or drop it
 entirely, which the Council felt would be a shame. Merging FSD and FS into a single
 module would make it easier to keep stable and in step
 with the ISO standards. At very least a health
 warning could be applied to current chapters, but it would be good to have a final
 draft
 before the next ISO meeting. LB agreed to limit the time spent on this task, and abandon
 it if not feasible. 
 LB Merge FSD and Feature Structures into a single module with other
 necessary revisions.
 2007\-08\-01






 
 Further Planning
 
 
 CW reiterated that most things need to be done by mid/end July. SR suggested a due
 date
 of 1 August for all technical changes. In answer to SB's concern that this was too
 early, it was agreed that this was not a complete technical freeze, but anything added
 post 1 August must be in a complete state for approval and proofreading by Council,
 or
 be deemed necessary work that arises from intermediate revision or proofreading. Council
 will not accept anything new after this date; only crucial revisions and bug
 fixes will be possible. 
 
 ALL Complete any outstanding assigned items by 13 July, unless otherwise scheduled. 
 
 2007\-07\-13

ALL Any and all technical revisions completed by 1 August.
 
 2007\-08\-01






 
 Next Meeting
 
 
 The next teleconference was scheduled for Tuesday 17 July, 12pm noon UTC. This will
 be:
  06:00 MDT in Calgary,
  07:00 CDT in Chicago,
  08:00 EDT in New
 York,
  13:00 BST in London,
  14:00 CEST in Paris,
  21:00 JST in Kyoto,
 and
  Wed 18 July, 00:00 NZST in Wellington.
  As a result the previous deadline
 of 2007\-07\-15 for completing previously assigned tasks (unless otherwise scheduled)
 
 was moved forward to 2007\-07\-13 in order to give Council time to post and react to
 
 work completed in sufficient time before the teleconference. 





