---
layout: page.njk
title: "TEI Technical Council Teleconference, 2018-09-27"
---
# TEI Technical Council Teleconference, 2018-09-27
**Meeting time:**


* 09:00 EDT, 14:00 BST, 15:00 CEST
* Started @ \~12:08Z, ended @ \~13:37Z.


**Present:**
* Syd Bauman (SB)
* Elisa Beshero\-Bondar (EB)
* Vanessa Bigot Juloux (VBJ)
* Hugh Cayless (HC)
* James Cummings (JC) \[arrived 10 minutes late]
* Elli Mylonas (EM) \[leaves @ 13:34Z]
* Martina Scholger (MS)
* Peter Stadler (PS) \[leaves @ 13:05Z]
* Sarah Stanley (SS)
* Raff Viglianti (RV)


**Apologies/Not Present:**
* Alex Bia (AB)
* Magdalena Turska (MT)


Congrats and welcome
--------------------


* Council welcomes new member\-to\-be Vanessa Bigot Juloux.
* JC is VBJ mentor; EB volunteers to help, too.


Planning Spring F2F
-------------------


* our options are:
* MT: interest from Warsaw University for hosting our next meeting,perhaps April or May?
* In conjunction with XML Prague (February 7–9\)?
* EB offered to host the meeting at Brown University, Providence? March 25–29 would be good, it is Spring Break at Brown.
* RV: could approach Folger Library in DC (better later than February).
* JC: Newcastle University?
	+ JC: Happy to have the meeting in NCL (fairly easy to get to, good transport). But would be better to have very late spring.
* JC: Another option go somewhere that TEI promotion would be useful, and trade use of rooms for some of us giving papers at a TEI Day of some sort.
* **Action on** MS to remember each potential organizer — i.e. RV, EM, JC, and MT to see what’s feasible for Spring meeting location with due date of next Council meeting.


General discussion on F2F meetings
----------------------------------


* General discussion on F2F meeting: should we continue having Council F2F at same time as Member’s Meetings?
	+ PS: suggests we disconnect — shorter travel, more time for us to meet.
	+ EM and EB think we should continue with it: good for transparency of Council business, and also to be sure Council members are present at conference, and less trips away.
	+ SB sees the logic in PSs suggestion, but points out that travel budgets are an issue for us. Should we do 3 *full* days (or 4…) instead of 2\.5? SB votes for 3 full days, possibly split as ½ day, 2 whole days, ½ day. JC agrees with SB. 3 full days minimum (even if split). \+1 from PS.
	+ There seems to be consensus for a full 3 days.


Monthly date for the teleconference
-----------------------------------


* Is the last Thursday of the month still ok (08:00 EDT, 13:00 BST, 14:00 CEST)?
	+ JC: I’m usually teaching Thursdays 12:00–15:00 until December. Perhaps a doodle poll?
	+ SB: \+1 for Doodle poll
	+ Action on MS to set up a new doodle with  hours from 12:00Z to 21:00Z, Monday–Friday.


Planning of next release
------------------------


* January 2019: suggested dates are January 21–22\.
	+ Release technicians: HC \& EM volunteer.
* Stylesheets to be released tomorrow(!) SB \& RV are release techs, planning on starting late morning (ET); MH will be on board to help starting \~11:30 ET.
* 2019 summer release is planned for July or later: EB and VBJ volunteer as release techs.


Question from Board — how can the Board support the Council?
------------------------------------------------------------


* This question came up during the Board meeting in Tokyo. Board sees that the Council has many different responsibilities to take care of and would like to support the Council.
* Would more Council members be helpful?
	+ One or two would be possible, but the odd number was chosen on purpose to avoid voting stalemates.
* Co\-opted (appointed) members
	+ EM this sounds like a great idea — ad hoc and shorter term contributors.
	+ JC: We’ve always had the ability to co\-opt any people we want.
	+ SB: And their travel is funded (on ad hoc basis) by Board.
	+ Or create workgrounds or task forces.
	+ We called them “invited experts”.
* More stability (longer terms): 3\-year terms?
	+ JC: if so then with yearly question of whether you wish to continue.
	+ EM: 2\-terms would mean 6 years, a lot to commit to. 4 year term?
	+ Term limits on re\-election? Ability to take a hiatus?
	+ Is there really an issue? Perhaps having invited experts is enough to deal with the problem of it being difficult to elect new people to Council because repeaters have an advantage.
	+ EM: Council should set aside some time to think about long\-range documentation so it’s easier for new Council members to contribute.


Infrastructure
--------------


* Who updates the website now? **Action on** MS: Suggest a standard procedure (or find an existing established procedure) around election time to do this, communicate with Luis.
* RV has possibly temporary Supercomputer access, is setting up Docker there and having trouble with accessing Jenkins.
* [https://wiki.tei\-c.org/index.php/TEI\-Council\-FAQ](https://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/TEI-Council-FAQ)


Tickets from Tokyo
------------------


* + \[SKIPPED FOR THIS MEETING \- Take to mailing list]
	+ <https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1795> \- Language of Schematron messages where @role\="nonfatal" and @role\="warning"
		- EB: Related: Issue with merging <https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1621> into dev branch\-\-apparently something breaks the Jenkins build\-\-investigating.
	+ <https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1707> : EB: quick update on measurement: Naoki's new sample code based on Tokyo decisions.
	+ <https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1805> \- Suggestion for new uniHan element
	+ <https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1756> \- event should have ptr and idno in its content model


Documentation
-------------


* MS: TCW at TEI website is now divided into “current” and “legacy” papers [http://www.tei\-c.org/activities/council/working/](https://www.tei-c.org/activities/council/working/).
* TCW clean up (suggestion by Martin Holmes) in pertaining GitHub repositories
	+ Do we still need TEIC/TEI/Documents/Editing/tcw\-editing.xml or the folder TEIC/TEI/Documents/TCW/ ? Action on HC to look into this.


Stylesheets group
-----------------


* SB: Want to try to resume regular meetings; will wait until Council meeting schedule is set, then Doodle poll monthly meeting times for Stylesheets meeting.


Ticket triage
-------------


* please add yourselves




| **September 2018** | **EM** |
| --- | --- |
| **October 2018** | **MT** |
| **November 2018** | **SS** |
| **December 2018** | **AB** |
| **January 2019** | **MS** |
| **February 2019** | **JC** |
| **March 2019** | **SB** |
| **April 2019** | **RV** |
| **May 2019** | **SS** |
| **June 2019** |  |
| **July 2019** | **EB** |


 