---
layout: page.njk
title: "TEI Technical Council Teleconference, 2019-08-19"
---
# TEI Technical Council Teleconference, 2019-08-19
**Meeting time**


* EDT 9:00\-10:30, GMT 14:00\-15:30, CEST 15:00\-16:30
* Started: 15:04 CET


**Present**
* Elisa Beshero\-Bondar (EB)
* Hugh Cayless (HC)
* James Cummings (JC)
* Elli Mylonas (EM)
* Martina Scholger (MS)
* Peter Stadler (PS)
* Sarah Stanley (SS)
* Raff Viglianti (RV)


**Apologies/Not Present**
* Syd Bauman (SB)
* Magdalena Turska (MT)
* Vanessa Bigot Juloux (VB)


 
F2F meeting in Graz
-------------------


* Standoff meeting on Monday afternoon
	+ Participants: Laurent Romary, Georg Vogeler, Piotr Banski  Roberto Rosselli del Turco cannot make it. JC wondered if there were others that should be invited.
		- Lou Burnard
		- Michael Sperberg\-McQueen
		- **Action on** **MS** to invite them.
	+ Reminder: MT (with help from rest of Council) to prepare a list of standoff use\-cases
* [Agenda/minutes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1d3OpQ8N-r1nJq0T0kUreUReCCG5FJ6P3HfHIEQ-kZbE/edit#heading=h.wcw74roupmsy)


Infrastructure concerns to discuss with Board in Graz
-----------------------------------------------------


* The Council needs to be able to undertake any of its duties without being hamstrung by single points of failure.
* TEI Website content: who is responsible and who has edit access? Discuss distributed responsibilities.
* TEI wiki: are we still editing?
* TEI website
	+ Wordpress should have made it easier for more to edit (Board and Council members).
	+ Should Council members be editing more than just minutes?
	+ Can we change the navigation menu structure?
	+ Project page: schedule an annual sprint to edit?
		- Create a form for adding detail like, “Is your XML visible?”
		- Can Council and Board look at the old form / advise on a new one? Ask Board about this on Board/Council mailing list.
		- Maybe we can circulate the form ahead of the TEI conference each year.


Roma
----


* RV fixed a wave of bugs last Friday. Needs to update Roma beta. Nearly ready for release on GitHub.
* Should alter old Roma main page (adding a link to [romabeta](https://romabeta.tei-c.org/)) in a dedicated branch.
* Long\-term: running Roma and Oxgarage from master branches (aka Docker image:latest) and have extra e.g. dev.oxgarage.tei\-c\-org for the dev branch.
* Council working on description on website: [https://romabeta.tei\-c.org/](https://romabeta.tei-c.org/).


SIGs
----


* Constance Crompton wants to get involved in the Ontologies SIG. Interested in developing documentation on best practices for developing triple stores.
* Should there be a Linked Data SIG for this separate from the Ontologies SIG? (Ontologies seems more theoretical).
* Invite Connie to draft a SIG/working group proposal? Or at least a statement of the problem she would like to solve, so Council can review it with her/guide her a bit. Ask her to draft some parameters.


Rub\-a\-dub
-----------


* Deferred because SB isn’t here


Meeting days/times
------------------


* Just for fall because there will be a new Council in January.
* Add to agenda for F2F in Graz.


SS stepping down from Council
-----------------------------


* SS announces that she is stepping down from Council at end of the year.
* Bylaws regarding what happens with the rest of SS’s term: “Each Technical Council Member shall be elected for a two\-year term, or in the case of an election to fill a vacancy between regular elections, for the term remaining for the vacant position. Terms of office begin at the following January 1 and end on December 31\.” The new person would fill one year term. SS and MS should discuss with Kathryn Tomasek on Board.


AOB
---


* MS will check in with VBJ whether she is coming to Graz.


 