---
layout: page.njk
title: "TEI Technical Council Teleconference, 2018-04-26"
---
# TEI Technical Council Teleconference, 2018-04-26
**Meeting time:**


* 08:00 EDT, 13:00 BST, 14:00 CEST
* Started @ \~12:03Z, ended @ \~13:29Z.


**Present:**
* Syd Bauman (SB)
* Elisa Beshero\-Bondar (EB)
* Hugh Cayless (HC)
* James Cummings (JC)
* Martina Scholger (MS)
* Peter Stadler (PS)
* Sarah Stanley (SS)
* Raff Vigilanti (RV) @ 12:15Z


**Apologies:**
* Alex Bia (AB)
* Elli Mylonas (EM)
* Magdalena Turska (MT)


TEI conference Tokyo (Sun 09 – Thu 13 Sep 18\)
----------------------------------------------


* Council meeting: Fri 7th – Sat 8th
* Workshops: Sun 9th
* Council Open Session: Mon 10th, morning
* Board meeting Thu 13th, morning


Call for nominations
--------------------


* Council, Board, TAPAS, Rahtz Prize


Deprecation policy \& release scheduling
----------------------------------------


* see [email from SB, 2018\-04\-22](https://lists.tei-c.org/pipermail/tei-council/2018/025177.html)


Minutes from previous face\-to\-face meetings
---------------------------------------------


* [Victoria](https://tei-c.org/activities/council/meetings/tei-technical-council-fall-f2f-2017-11-16-18-parkside-hotel-victoria-bc/)
* [Cologne](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1CgyTW1lRTy-_32TbVJVJpmg9399bgWnjteiExC2neZw/edit#)


Next release
------------


* Schedule
	+ After ADHO Mexico City?
	+ Spanish language hackathon at DH2018? Action on MS by 2018\-05\-03: Contact Gimena del Rio Riande and Antonio Rojas Castro; also ask if Alejandro Bia is going to Mexico.
		- How much time is needed to implement translations? More than a night?
		- Use a translation tool, speed up the work with a basic translation in place.
* Release technicians: RV and PS (With help from MS and everyone else), July 23–24\.


LingSig conference call
-----------------------


* PS: Brief report on LingSIG conference call with Susanne Haaf and Piotr Banski.
	+ Most [LingSIG tickets](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3ASIG%3ALingSIG) are doable, except Standoff. My idea (PS) would be to try to get some money for a workshop and bring together interested parts of Council and other interested LingSIG parties.
		- Should we organize a LingSIG meeting in Tokyo? But there are many issues on the table, one day will not be enough.
		- Approach TEI Board for funding?
			* Who needs to be involved? Laurent Romary, Piotr Banski, Susanne Haaf, and at least 3 Council members.
			* Prepare a proposal to the Board to fund a task force to meet 2 or 3 days (linguistics SIG and 3 interested from Council).
			* Next Board meeting \= May 10\.


TEI\-Website (wordpress) account
--------------------------------


* Do we want to have a shared Council account or separate individual accounts?
* Maybe an individual account for the Chair (for regular posting of minutes).
* Decision: MS and HC to have wordpress accounts to update site. Other Council members will ask Luis Meneses for an account if required.


Oxford TEI Website \-\> Vault \[JC]
-----------------------------------


* Talking about <http://tei.it.ox.ac.uk/>.
* Need to archive these deep historical resources (“information archaeology”) on the TEI (teaching materials/talks/experimental ideas/correspondence/legacy TEI development materials)
	+ Selection principle on what to archive?
	+ Much easier to just copy it all.
	+ Should/would TEI archive such things?
	+ How would TEI decide whether to archive?
		- This is about making the TEI (not a specific project).
		- Is our vault well curated enough for this?
		- Vault needs some serious attention
			* used to be in a Subversion repo at the University of Virginia (run by David Sewell), but that is no longer linked up.
		- At least needs a snapshot before migrating to new website.
* Is is okay for JC to copy resources into the Vault? Objections: Vault requires house\-cleaning, we’re just deferring a lot of work. Shouldn’t this stuff go into a GitHub repo? Which means it won’t get done.
* We should make some kind of announcement/call for “Curatorial Work” on Vault materials.
* Action on JC: Needs to estimate how much space is required–if there’s room, just copy it. HC: there’s probably enough disk space.


Blue sky thinking
-----------------


Tickets
-------


* [1756](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1756) event should have ptr and idno in its content model
	+ Most people seem to be in favour. Should JC just go implement?
	+ JC: I think yes.
* [327](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/327) an \<object\> element
	+ On JC’s todo list to produce initial straw man.


Ticket triage
-------------




| **April 2018** | **SS** |
| --- | --- |
| **May 2018** | **MS** |
| **June 2018** | **HC** |
| **July 2018** | **EB** |
| **August 2018** | **JC** |
| **September 2018** | **EM** |
| **October 2018** | **MT** |
| **November 2018** | **SS** |
| **December 2018** | **AB** |


 