---
layout: page.njk
title: "TEI Technical Council Minutes 2016-08"
---
# TEI Technical Council Minutes 2016-08





 
 Teleconference 2016\-08\-25 13:00 UTC
 
 Present


* Hugh Cayless (HC)
* James Cummings (JC)
* Elli Mylonas (EM)
* Syd Bauman (SB)
* Elisa Beshero\-Bondar (EB)
* Peter Stadler (PS)
* Stefan Majewski (SM)
* Martina Scholger (MS)
* Magdalena Turska (MT)


Apologies


* Lou Burnard (LB)




 
 Agenda and minutes
 
 
* F2F Planning:
* Sunday, 09\-25 09:00–17:30 (start time reasonable?)
	+ Lunch options.
* Monday, 09\-26 09:00–17:30
* Tuesday, 09\-27:
	+ Skype in to Sebastian's memorial: 11:50 \[JC has confirmed]
	+ Lunch/meet with Board: 12:30–13:30
	+ Meet: 14:00–17:30
* MT: Workshop Monday, Tuesday
* JC: Arriving noon\-ish Sunday
* Arrivals, departures, and contact info [spreadsheet](https://www.tei-c.org/Activities/Council/Meetings/gid=0 "spreadsheet").
* [Whither TEI planning](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1E1SEMfxvhhm_I9fAwFzOMXOl6mLy02o10aJWQt7BfhM/edit "Whither TEI planning")
* Translatathon on Tuesday: Martina, Stefan and Peter busy
* Request for a talk on TEI oXygen framework.
* EM on oXygen Frameworks; JC(?) on TEI build thereof? Note that the SyncRO guys will
 be in Vienna for conference, if not our meeting.Ask them specific question if needed.
* **Action on SB (due Sat 08\-27\):** ask Martin Holmes if \& when he will be in Vienna
* **Action on EB (due Sat 09\-16\)**: review Council’s current documentation to see if we already have info on Frameworks
 (e.g., the instructions are in [TCW 22](http://teic.github.io/TCW/tcw22.html "TCW 22") step 16\).
* Simple/PM \[Note: Can I propose having this discussion on Sunday as technically I have
 a workshop to run Mon and Tue? I've called in some reinforcements so hope to be going
 back and forth between the two, but still I'd like to be present and not running for
 the Simple discussion.] \[Note: Well, maybe we can deal with it in the telecon :\-).
 But, yes, if there's more to talk about, let's do it on the Sunday.]
	+ Finishing off Simple
		- Stylesheet update now done.
		- Thanks to Martina for reading/correcting draft ODD. A few issues still outstanding
		 (see LB email to Council on 19/08 16:54\)
		- Martin M has noticed that Simple schema does not include elements such as \<gi\> which
		 he likes to use in the header when documenting things under specialised children of
		 \<encodingDesc\> (which are not included either). Verb. sap . [http://www.merriam\-webster.com/dictionary/verbum%20sat%20sapienti%20est](http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/verbum%20sat%20sapienti%20est "http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/verbum%20sat%20sapienti%20est")
		- How do we make sure that the next oXygen release includes a built in template for
		 Simple?
		- Do we want to organise some kind of “launch event” for Simple at the conference? Ask
		 MartinM?
* Processing Model Revisions?
	+ See [\#1494](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1494 "#1494"), [\#1495](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1495 "#1495"), [\#1496](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1496 "#1496"), [\#1497](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1497 "#1497"), and [\#1500](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1500 "#1500") Note that we have already released Procmod, so these are properly speaking bug fixes,
	 nothing to do with Simple\[Note: They might have something to do with Simple if those changes resulted in it
	 defining its own Processing Model (as I think it should).].
	+ **Action on all interested (by Sat 09\-03\)**: read on comment on above tickets.
	+ List of behaviours are attribute values at: [https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/blob/dev/P5/Source/Specs/model.xml](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/blob/dev/P5/Source/Specs/model.xml "https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/blob/dev/P5/Source/Specs/model.xml")
	+ behaviourSpec would need way to change number and names of params, description, etc.
* Planning for next release
	+ At or before conference?!
	+ [https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/milestones](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/milestones "https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/milestones")






