---
title: "TEI Technical Council Minutes 2015-08"
creator: TEI Technical Council
date: 2015-08-31
---
# TEI Technical Council Minutes 2015-08



Teleconference 2015\-08\-31 14:00 UTC


Present
 
 * Hugh Cayless (HC)
* Syd Bauman (SB)
* Peter Stadler (PWS)
* James Cummings (JC)
* Martin Holmes (MH)
* Lou Burnard (LB)


Apologies
 
 * Stefanie Gehrke (SG)
* Raff Viglianti (RV)


- started 14:06; ended 15:51


 Agenda
 
 
- Conference and F2F
 
	
	- Sunday meeting is booked in same
	 place as business meeting in the Mama Shelter Hotel
	
	- The meeting will be
	 there all day Sunday 25 October, then use the workshop venue room for Monday 26
	 October and first half of Tuesday 27 October

- Migration Status and Issues
 
	
	- Remember, there is a pointer
	 to the Sourceforge repository and a TEI web page with instructions for using it on
	 the Guidelines’ index page ([Bug \#766](https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/766/)) There is also other
	 documentation here and there which points specifically to SF. And legacy URLs which
	 point there from many systems. We’ll have to track those down.
	
	- JC and MH
	 would be reluctant to move if SF were more trustworthy. LB confirms that using
	 Subversion on GitHub “nearly works”. HC worries about branching. All agree that if
	 we’re moving to GitHub, we should move to git too. Those skilled with git should
	 help those who are new to it. Practice is required. MH suggests that the repo should
	 be called “P5” instead of “Guidelines”. PWS asks whether we’ve moved yet or not. HC:
	 The “Guidelines” (\=P5\) one can, if we agree, be the repo going forward. We should
	 use Guidelines\-Test for playing around and migrating tickets. JC points out that
	 Guidelines \= TEI as it has more than P5 in it. (Action on JC: Rename Guidelines
	 Repository on TEIC github organisation. DONE). Should we move now or wait until
	 after a release? Some disagreement. LB and SB feel it’s vital to keep the rhythm of
	 the releases going, and put off the migration; others fear that SF is now so
	 unreliable that it’s justifiable to defer a release. Consensus seems to be to move
	 to GitHub, and try to release from there, with a backup plan to push from
	 GitHub/master to SF, and build from there. I.e., HC \& MH will work on release
	 process from GitHub for 2 weeks, and then decide which we do.

- Pure ODD and DTDs
 
	
	- Problem is that in *impureODD* there are some redundant \<rng:group\> elements inserted by
	 the wise men of long ago to ensure that DTD generation worked correctly (i.e. had
	 parens in right places). \<rng:group\> is mostly correctly translated as
	 \<sequence\> in pure odd. But we have a schematron rule which prohibits
	 \<sequence\>s of only one thing.
	
	- Simply wrapping all %model.xxx; in
	 parens won’t work: it generates error for mixed content models
	
	- Trying to
	 figure out what’s going on in odd2dtd.xsl is Hard. Very Hard. You may think
	 diamonds, granite, or tungsten are pretty hard. They are like yoghurt in comparison
	 to this.
	
	- Cunning plan — post\-tweak the p5subset.xml file to add spurious
	 \<sequence\> elements looks promising. LB has so far identified 92 cases which
	 need tweaking. SB volunteers to write the hack itself.

- \<xenoData\> (SB):
 
	
	- categorization: \<xenoData\>
	 currently has a derived @type with values “source” and “transcription”; this is
	 wrong, as \<xenoData\> is repeatable and categorizable, so @type is needed for
	 categorization; i.e., @type is where “this is hand\-generated METS information” or
	 “this Dublin Core generated by program X” should go. But where then does “source”
	 vs
	 “thisTEI” go? SB would prefer to create a new @about, @describes, or @scope for
	 “source” vs “thisTEI”.
	 General consensus in favour of @scope with suggested
	 values of source/transcription/other?. Would also be a member of att.typed to give
	 users the option to categorize as they need to.
	
	- since we’re letting
	 non\-XML data in, is an @encoding or similar necessary? (SB wonders if permitting
	 \<tei:binaryObject\> as a child of \<xenoData\> would do the trick?)
	 Consensus is that @encoding is not needed, at least initially.

- Abstract Model enforcement with Schematron
 
	
	- <https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/commit/fc6d0e79f12e90b09c37c89200f36d453e27c10c>
	
	- Basic point is global checking that, e.g., nowhere is there a div inside
	 a p, and other similar things which should be true. Will support the proposed
	 changes to the appcrit model that JC still worries about, this will stop people
	 doing stupid stuff, hopefully, for those using schematron only
	
	- Need to
	 worry about what \<p\>\-inside\-\<p\> situations are, in fact, aligned with
	 abstract model (e.g., p/note/p). HC will continue implementing, but will talk to SB
	 about how more automated Schematron generation based on the class system might be
	 achieved. JC thinks there must be a better way we can generate this even if it
	 involves revision of the class system. (He suggests pure ODD localisation of content
	 models but SB says this won’t help.)

- Updates needed to language identification (SB)
 
	
	- SB
	 informs Council the language identification parts of Guidelines need some updating
	 —
	 volunteers to do the work himself, but needs guidance on where (Sourceforge vs
	 GitHub) and (if using \`git\`) how to create ticket, make changes, and test
	 them.

- TEI Simple (JC)
 
	
	- JC informs Council that the TEI Simple
	 project is working hard. He has made available draft Spec files for inclusion in the
	 Guidelines for the Processing Model at [https://github.com/TEIC/TEI\-Simple/tree/master/guidelines\-specs](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI-Simple/tree/master/guidelines-specs) and
	 is drafting prose to go with these for the TD chapter. It would be nice to get this
	 in
	 the next release. The TEI Simple customization can be added to a later release if
	 not ready. JC is now working on the “Performance Indicators” which is a
	 \<taxonomy\> with set of nested categories indicating what kinds of markup you
	 can expect a text to have. (e.g. are there names, do they have @ref, etc.)

- Next Release? Who? When? Where? What? Why?
 
	
	- Who \= a panel
	 of experts
	
	- When \= early–mid October; 1 October Freeze
	
	- Where
	 \= internet
	
	- What \= include \<xenoData\>, pureODD improvements, maybe
	 \<p\>\-inside\-\<rdg\>, etc.
	
	- Why \= it’s our
	 job
	
	- Release 2\.9\.0 Codename: 
	 Stormageddon





