---
title: "TEI Council Meeting"
creator: Dan O'Donnell
date: 2007-09-25
---
# TEI Council Meeting






The TEI Council teleconference meeting took place on Tuesday 25 September at 12:00
 UTC.



Participants: Arianna Ciula (AC), Syd Bauman (SB), Tone Merete Bruvik
 (TMB), Lou Burnard (LB), Matthew Driscoll (MD), Dan O'Donnell (Minutes; DO), Dot Porter
 (arrived 12:45; DP), Sebastian Rahtz (SR), Laurent Romary (LR), John Walsh (JW), and
 Christian Wittern
 (Chair;CW).


Council members unable to participate: James Cummings (JC), David Birnbaum (DB), and
 Conal Tuohy (CT). 





Open action items
 
 
 CW reviewed the action items from the previous minutes.
 



LB  Integrate list of workgroups and members into Guidelines. 2007\-09\-07* LB reports that all work has been done except some affiliations; suggestion was
 made that we might want to include new affiliations for those who have changed
 institutions since their work for us; LB will contact relevant people either directly
 or via tei\-l for checking names and affilitations.
 LB contact workgroup participants and others who have helped on P5 to check spelling
 of names and current affiliations. 
 2007\-09\-30

LB/JW Integrate revised rendition recommendations into Guidelines. 2007\-09\-14* Done. 
 JW to provide additional e.g.s and read through existing ones in rendition 
 2007\-09\-30

ALLread through the proposed list of rendition attribute values and provide feedback
 to LB 
 2007\-09\-30

CT Produce workable examples and proposals for change to facsimile markup (with regard
 to the meaning of surface and its children). 2007\-09\-14* Done. Consensus implemented by LB. 
 This item is closed except for bugs and errors.

DB, TMB, SB, LB Revise NH chapter.
 2007\-09\-07* Revision of this chapter is almost
 complete; SB reports that most all has been completed
 except replacement of one example, and the
 provision of English examples throughout as hoped for by
 Council last meeting. However, SB had thought that because
 deadline had passed, we were simply foregoing the English
 examples. Council thought otherwise, and expressed a
 desire to have the English running example in place even
 now. 
 SB to finish
 revisions of NH by end of month 
 2007\-09\-30

All review NH, which has yet to be read in its new form by anybody other than the authors
 
 2007\-09\-30

LB Report back to council on any changes to FSD/FS and if necessary rationalise the
 TEI version. 2007\-09\-14* LB reports that there are no changes to report; still possible that there may be last
 minute changes from their side; LB and LR are pushing to get action from the responsible
 person at the ISO.

DO Produce an ODD for add/del/supplied/etc. proposals with regard to latest modifications
 of PH/CO chapters. Reporting to Council list. 2007\-09\-07* DO reports that this was done, but received such luke warm to cold reception from the
 editors that he decided there was more to lose by introducing these kind of changes
 this late in the process. As a result abandoned it temporarily. Punted down field
 for P5\.1

ALL Comment on revised add/del/supplied proposals on Council mailing list. 2007\-09\-14* No Longer Applicable

LB Integrate any agreed add/del/supplied revisions (after Council input) to the Guidelines.
 2007\-09\-20* No Longer Applicable

JC, DP All issues should be resolved and/or reported to Sebastian and/or Council. 2007\-09\-07* In absence of JC and DP at this point of the call, Council discussed the nexts steps
 more generally. Decided to call the web design closed except for bugs and errors to
 comment from TC members on 9\-28, while encouraging TC members not to raise major changes
 before that time. Acceptance or rejections of suggestions delegated to JC and DP.
 With reassignment of SB back to editorial duties, he will be leaving the site in the
 hands of JP and DP (with support from SR as needed). JC and DP are to begin liasing
 with Chris Ruotolo to ensure the integration of the new tei\-c.org site and the P5
 site. DO is to facilitate this integration process. The TC felt that the webmast from
 the main board site should have over all leadership responsibility.
 ALL Report any last minute major suggestions for changes to web design (if you absolutely
 must) to JC and DP
 2007\-09\-28

JC, DP Begin integration process with main site with Chris Ruotolo (ongoing)
DO Facilitate communication between the two web teams
 2007\-09\-25

JC Post a message summarising his objections to the way 
 specGrp and 
 specGrpRef elements are handled to Council list. 2007\-09\-01* Done.

ALL Discuss what should be done about 
 specGrp and 
 specGrpRef elements. 2007\-09\-07* Done

EDs Remove all leading prose before 
 specGrp and 
 specGrpRef elements. 2007\-09\-14* Done

SR Modify XSLT in response to Council decisions concerning 
 specGrp and 
 specGrpRef elements and/or Council. 2007\-09\-14* Done

DO, SB Produce revised proposal/ODD about what to do with app/rdg issues and post to Council
 list. 2007\-09\-14* DO reported that given the objection to the choice/subst/del/add, he saw no point in
 pursuing this more complex proposal for P 5\.0\. CW asked if DO would be willing to
 prepare a customisation that others could use with P5\.0 andadd this to the list of
 things that should go in P 5\.1 
 DO said he would.

ALL Comment on revised app/rdg draft on Council mailing list. 2007\-09\-21* No longer applicable

SB Integrate revisions to app/rdg (after Council input) to the Guidelines. 2007\-09\-28* No longer applicable

LB Integrate changes necessary for a working implementation for modelling of manuscript
 stemmata, as proposed on council list. 2007\-09\-07* Done

ALL Review chapters and correct mistakes as per http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/wiki/Review
 2007\-09\-07* Skipped until later in the meeting.

All Add new significant technical revisions to trac for P5 1\.1 to keep track of these
 ideas as they occur to Council during in P5 1\.0 revisions. http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/milestone/P5%201\.1\.
 Ongoing* No comment was made on this.

SB Check Guidelines prose and examples for namespaces which are not TEI, a recognised
 schema, or www.example.com (for example, www.hatstand.org). 2007\-09\-14* On going as the chapters are reviewed and copy\-edited.

LB Expand explanatory prose in USE concerning which elements are mandatory and how a
 user can know this. 2007\-09\-14* The point of this item was initially lost on Council. Later, after AC discovered additional
 information, LB said he would devote some attention to it
 LB Expand explanatory prose in USE concerning which elements are mandatory and how a
 user can know this as Arianna described it in her email today. 
 2007\-09\-30

Eds/SR/LR Consider whether 
 classes should have a mode attribute. 2007\-09\-14* Done. Awaiting final comment from SB.
 SB read and comment if nec. on solution to mode attribute on 
 classes. 
 2007\-10\-10

LB Post to Council list a call for examples meeting particular requirements. 2007\-09\-21* Not done. To be done as part of chapter reviewes and editing.

CW CW to set date for next meeting using meetomatic, and announce. 2007\-09\-07* Done. Very successfully.




 
 Chapter Triage
 
 
 CW asked Council members to report on outstanding chapter reviews:
 




| Who | \# | Title | Comments |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| AC | MS | Manuscript Description | Done except for question about   hand/  handDesc LB deal with   hand/  handDesc issue in MS   2007\-09\-30 |
| CW | WD | Representation of non\-standard characters and glyphs | Done. |
| CT | PH | Transcription of Primary Sources | CW to contact CT and discover status  CW contact CT and discover status of PH |
| DB | ND | Names, Dates, People, and Places | Not present; CW to contact and discover status  CW contact DB and discover status of ND |
| DB | FT | Tables, Formulae, and Graphics | Done |
| DP | CO | Elements Available in All TEI Documents | Ongoing. To be finished by 09\-30  DP finish review of CO   2007\-09\-30 |
| JC | DS | Default Text Structure | Allegedly spotted in hall with copy of chapter in hand; witness was uncertain if this  was a ruse or evidence of ongoing or completed effort. CW to find out.  CW contact JC and discover status of DS |
| JW | SA | Linking, Segmentation, and Alignment | On going; to be completed by 09\-30  JW complete review of SA   2007\-09\-30 |
| JW | AI | Simple Analytic Mechanisms | On going; to be completed by 09\-30  JW complete review of AI   2007\-09\-30 |
| LR | FS | Feature Structures | Done |
| LR | FD | Feature System Declaration | Review ongoing ; to be completed by 09\-30  LR complete review of FD   2007\-09\-30 |
| LR | TD | Documentation Elements | Done. |
| MD | GD | Graphs, Networks, and Trees | Done |
| MD | CC | Language Corpora | Done |
| SR | NH | Using the TEI (NH) | Awaiting revised version |
| SR | DI | Dictionaries | Review ongoing; to be completed by 09\-30  SR complete review of DI   2007\-09\-30 |
| TMB | ND | Names Dates, etc. | Done |




 
 Additional Items for Discussion
 
 
 There were two additional items for discussion on the agenda: 


* Bibliography
* Formatting of the Guidelines: decision process for confliction proposals (e.g. formatting
 "bug" in empty elements like 
 specDesc)


 The second of these topics was discussed during our review of the relevant action
 item; only the bibliography question was discussed in detail here.
 
 
 
 
 Bibliography
 
 
 A vigorous discussion of where we stood and what was involved took place. Minutes
 became hard to keep and it was agreed DO would post a summary for review. All action
 items are currently dated to 10\-15 pro forma; but some need to be completed before
 others.


In short: the Gudieline's "bibliography" will contain three parts: 


Suggested Reading
 Works Cited
 Sources of Examples used in the Guidelines


 The Suggested Reading section is derived from the 180 or so items in an unstructured bibliography supplied
 by Kevin Hawkins and Susan Schreibman. DP agreed to take this list, compare it to
 the 50 or so items in our current Works cited and remove duplicates from the reading
 list. LR will then convert the Reading List to biblStruct in the same way he and his
 magic workshop have just finished the Works Cited List. Meanwhile, AC is also collecting
 sources for examples for use in our "Sources" list. The actual implementation of this
 part of the bibliography (i.e. the linking of documentation to examples) will be effected
 by SR. Meanwhile again SR and LB will be converting 
 bibl in the text of the guidelines to 
 ref pointing at the works cited list.
 
 
 All the above action produced the following action list: 
 DP Compare Reading List and Works Cited and remove duplicates from the Reading List.
 2007\-10\-15

LR Convert Reading List to StructBibl 
 2007\-10\-15

AC Finish extracting sources for list of sources for examples 
 2007\-10\-15

SR Connect sources of examples bibliography to examples in text 
 2007\-10\-15

SR/LB Convert 
 bibl in the text of the guidelines to 
 ref pointing at the works cited list 
 2007\-10\-15







 
 Next Meeting
 
 
 The next teleconference was not scheduled. CW will put up a meetomatic survey to
 determine the best date. It will, however be at 12:00 noon UTC. This will be:
  06:00
 MDT in Calgary,
  07:00 CDT in Chicago,
  08:00 EDT in New York,
  13:00 BST in
 London,
  14:00 CEST in Paris,
  21:00 JST in Kyoto, and
  00:00
 NZST in Wellington.
 
CW CW to set date for next meeting using meetomatic, and announce.
 
 2007\-09\-30







