---
title: "TEI Technical Council Teleconference, 2017-10-26 13:00 UTC"
date: 2017-10-26
---
# TEI Technical Council Teleconference, 2017-10-26 13:00 UTC




Present:


* Syd Bauman (SB)
* Peter Stadler (PS)
* Magdalena Turska (MT)
* Sarah Stanley (SS)
* Raffaele Viglianti (RV)
* Hugh Cayless (HC), chair
* Elisa Beshero\-Bondar (EB)
* Alex Bia (AB)
* Martina Scholger (MS)
* Elli Mylonas (EM)


Apologies:


* James Cummings (JC)



Agenda
------



* Any objections to approving the Indic Texts SIG? No objections. Some discussion of
 whether other SIG proposals have overlapped: this seems to resolve a number or such
 requests in recent years. Basically, yes: approve.
* Refreshments/lunch at venue? HC needs to tell them if we want coffee or meals (HC
 thinks maybe coffee, but probably not lunch, but needs input). NO
* HC asked Martin Holmes if he'd be able to join us at the F2F and he's happy to come
 for as much as he can.


* Quick reaction to issue [\#1476 \- Source links for examples sometimes missing; all have disappeared from HTML
 output](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1476 "#1476 - Source links for examples sometimes missing; all have disappeared from HTML output")Syd and Elli suggest marking the 467 egXML chunks that have no text content and have no source attribute as havingsource\="\#UND" (undetermined) and create a new bib entry to point to if necessary. Reactions?
	+ HC says it makes sense.
	+ Council agrees to wait 24\-48 hours, and we’ll make change after that. EM will add
	 note to ticket



### F2F


We'll have the room all day on Sat 11\-18\. Several of us will be departing in the afternoon,
 so general business should stop by 14:00/14:30, but those who are staying can keep
 working on tickets if they want.
Main item is agenda\-making for the face\-to\-face meeting ([F2F Agenda doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1E6Xu4VrZ_EZpvv7NndFsCVedQXOBpqV2zg3XuaxWVWA/edit?usp=sharing "F2F Agenda doc")). We want to spend time on:
1. Stylesheets
2. RomaJS
3. OxGarage
4. Spring F2F
5. Chapter 11
6. LingSIG tickets (PS to prepare those)
7. Tickets that warrant extended discussion : (@mode in ODD)
	1. [\`@mode\`](https://github.com/TEIC/Stylesheets/issues/272 "`@mode`")\- study up ahead of time what the guidelines say. Collate tickets that relate to this.
	 Decide what the right way should be and document it. Figure out what the stylesheets
	 do and are supposed to do. Figure out what should be implemented.
		1. Pre\-read [https://github.com/TEIC/Stylesheets/issues/272](https://github.com/TEIC/Stylesheets/issues/272 "https://github.com/TEIC/Stylesheets/issues/272")
	2. Some stylesheet tickets, discussed and worked on
		1. Pre\-read [document mapping ODD processing](https://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/Mapping_ODD_processing "document mapping ODD processing")
		2. Syd and Martin to prioritize Stylesheets tickets, looking for important tickets and/or
		 ones that require discussion by the full group
		3. EM: we should (eventually) clarify confusions about the role and purpose of the Stylesheets
		 cooperative group and its relationship to Council.




### Tickets (if there's time)


(ones we didn't get to last time)
* [phrase\-level inside Schematron](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1582 "phrase-level inside Schematron")TEI in Libraries needs an answer on this rapidly
	+ Syd will look into how to fix it. All seem to agree that this should be allowed. Is
	 it a namespace issue (HC)?
* [Add listRef to model.ptrLike (and expand its description slightly) \#1667](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1667 "Add listRef to model.ptrLike (and expand its description slightly) #1667")
* [\<q\> should be allowed in \<span\> \#1658](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1658 "<q> should be allowed in <span> #1658")
* [\<seal\> element description should be expanded to other authentication mechanisms \#1655](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1655 "<seal> element description should be expanded to other authentication mechanisms #1655")
* [Some mix ups expanding upon examples in specs \#1654](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1654 "Some mix ups expanding upon examples in specs #1654")(I’d just like to clarify best practices)
* [\`@mode\`](https://github.com/TEIC/Stylesheets/issues/272 "`@mode`")
* [All amber tickets](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22Status%3A+Needs+Discussion%22 "All amber tickets")






