---
layout: page.njk
title: "TEI Technical Council Meeting,"
creator: TEI Technical Council
---
# TEI Technical Council Meeting,



**Participants:** Syd Bauman (SB), Lou Burnard (LB), Hugh Cayless (HC), James Cummings (JC)
 (Chair), Martin Holmes (MH), Elli Mylonas (EM, 14:10Z), Paul F Schaffner (PFS), Peter
 W Stadler (PWS), Stefanie
 Gehrke (SG), Sebastian Rahtz (SR)


**Apologies:** Fabio Ciotti (FC)



 Actions
 
 * **Action: LB to draft prose for correspDesc addtions to header chapter and report back
 to
 Council**
* **PWS to report back on Standoff progress**
* **Action: All to read the msPart proposal and discuss them on the mailing list.**
* **Action on SG to badger everyone to do read msPart proposal.**
* **Action on Council to discuss global @resp on the mailing list before Tuesday;**
* **then MH will go ahead with implementation.****Action on PWS to fix a date by which the \<correspDesc\> proposal should be
 implemented and report to the Council list.**
* **Action on MH to report to Council within a month or so about oxygen\-tei framework
 building
 and next release**
* **Action on all mentors to document their experiences and what they learn on the wiki.**
* **Action on JC to officially introduce mentors to mentorees on Council. \[DONE]**
* **Action on MH to post to Council list with a set of links to helpful documents. \[DONE]**
* **Action: JC to prod Object working group again. \[DONE]**
* **Action: JC to set up Council Chair elections, get a returning officer, etc. \[DONE]**
* **Action on JC: to post a Doodle poll for the next conference within a week. \[DONE]**




 Minutes of Raleigh Face to Face Meeting
 
 [http://www.tei\-c.org/Activities/Council/Meetings/tcm63\.xml](/Activities/Council/Meetings/tcm63.xml)



- Review of Actions (See minutes at [Minutes from F2F](/Activities/Council/Meetings/tcm63.xml)) 
 
	
	- JC reviews actions
	
	- LB gave an update on TEI\-ODDS and Pure ODD development





 CorrespDesc
 
  PWS provided an update on [correspDesc
 ticket](https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/510/)
- Specification of ODD proposal updated [http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/TEI\-Correspondence\-SIG/correspDesc/blob/master/doc/proposal.html](http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/TEI-Correspondence-SIG/correspDesc/blob/master/doc/proposal.html)[https://github.com/TEI\-Correspondence\-SIG/correspDesc](https://github.com/TEI-Correspondence-SIG/correspDesc) based on feedback from last Council
 meeting. Decided not to allow nesting. Example use\-cases have been collected and are
 available on
 GitHub [https://github.com/TEI\-Correspondence\-SIG/correspDesc/tree/master/examples](https://github.com/TEI-Correspondence-SIG/correspDesc/tree/master/examples). Please all take
 a look at the examples and the specification and make sure they’re in line with what
 we discussed at
 Duke. \<correspDesc\> may be added to att.typed and \<correspAction\> to att.sortable.
 We
 agree with this. The chapter prose needs to be added to the Header chapter; this should
 probably be
 drafted by someone else, so that we can see if the result matches the intentions of
 the proposers.
 There is some text in the current ODD proposal, but it needs to be reworked. LB is
 willing to try this
 in the new year.

- **Action: LB to draft prose for correspDesc addtions to header chapter and report back
 to Council**








 Standoff
 
 
 PWS provided an update on [standoff proposal
 ticket](https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/378/)
- Nothing has happened recently; PWS tried to push the group to move forward, and has
 arranged a
 conference call with Laurent Romary, who has some examples.

- LaurentR has created a GitHub project. It’s just a stub right now.

- This is very distinct from the \<xenoData\> proposal, and should not be confused with
 it.

- SB points out there has been some traffic on the Council list about it, which we should
 all read. MH
 comments this was very confusing.

- **PWS to report back on Standoff progress**








 redefining msPart
 
 
  SG / PWS provided an update on [redefining
 msPart](https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/505/) (SG / PWS)
 
- SG and PWS have created a document, checked the prose of the Guidelines, and have
 proposed some
 changes. A link to the proposal will be added to the ticket [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1bpBPughQp5sOoB13iTMHMeRd88Mjv12\_eGZiQXY\-na8/edit\#](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1bpBPughQp5sOoB13iTMHMeRd88Mjv12_eGZiQXY-na8/edit#heading=h.3tej6b6h331f)

- SG has recently posted a ticket which arises out of this: [https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature\-requests/538/](https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/538/)This proposes fixing a bad example of a ‘composite’ MS.

- **Action: All to read the msPart proposal and discuss them on the mailing list.**

- **Action on SG to badger everyone to do read msPart proposal.**








 Global @resp
 
 
 MH provided an update on [global @resp](https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/443/);
 detailed implementation plan is [on the
 wiki](https://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/Global_@resp_attribute) for everyone to check through before it's done (MH). **Action on Council to
 discuss it on the mailing list before Tuesday; then MH will go ahead with implementation.** Minor bugs
 or typos can just be reported directly to MH. DONE 2014\-12\-10\.




 Next Release
 
 Date of next release; release technician. \<correspDesc\> and global resp should be
 triggers for this. SR
 thinks the former will take quite a while. **Action on PWS to fix a date by which the
 \<correspDesc\> proposal should be implemented and report to the Council list.** Should be one of
 the new members, so we have new eyes on the documentation. SR asks about oxygen\-tei
 framework building. MH
 will be looking at as part of the JTEI work. Will take at least as long as the addition
 of correspDesc. SB
 doesn’t think this should be release\-blocking, but we must not lose track of it. **Action on MH
 to report to Council within a month or so about oxygen\-tei framework building and
 next release**




 Mentoring New Council Members
 
 
 Mentoring new members (MH) MH been working with SG; LB agreed to work with Stefan;
 SB to work with Raffaele; 


* **Action on all mentors to document their experiences and what they learn on the wiki.**
* **Action on JC to officially introduce mentors to mentorees on Council.**
* **Action on MH to post to Council list with a set of links to helpful documents. DONE
 2014\-12\-17\.**




 Object Working Group
 
 JC noted that he had prodded the Object working group
 
- **Action: JC to prod Object working group again. \[JC has prodded OyvindE and TorstenS;
 no response yet]**








 Election of Council Chair
 
 HC had declared and LB is also willing to serve and will post to the mailing list
 announcing his candidacy. **Action: JC to set up Council Chair elections, get a returning officer, etc. \[DONE]**




 AOB
 
 * **Action on JC: to post a Doodle poll for the next conference within a week. \[DONE]** We
 could attempt to schedule the whole of the year.
* Council thanked the departing members:
 
	
	* EM, SR

 There was much weeping.

