---
layout: page.njk
title: "TEI Council Conference Call 19 Mar 2007"
---
# TEI Council Conference Call 19 Mar 2007





Meeting participants were LB, CW, SR,
 AC, CT (in part), DO, DP, MD, JC.


LR had sent apologies. 





Actions from previous meeting
 
 Outstanding actions * Reports on several oustanding actions remained forthcoming,
 and several of those actioned had been unable to join
 the call. SR was asked to move remaining relevant points to
 the TRAC system for monitoring. 
 
 SR move outstanding outstanding action items to TRAC
 
 2007\-03\-25
relatedItem and biblItem * LB confirmed that he had discussed the issues with LR
 as requested at the last call and that a new draft, mostly
 derived from JW's work of last year, was now in place which
 removed 
 biblItem and introduced
 
 relatedItem, as reported to the list.
Text and image encoding * DP reported that she and Conal had completed the ODD
 but not yet tested it. It was available for comment on the wiki
 at [http://www.tei\-c.org.uk/wiki/index.php/FacsimileMarkupODD](http://www.tei-c.org.uk/wiki/index.php/FacsimileMarkupODD); after the call, CT reported that he was still working on it.
Physical Bibliography * The workgroup seemed to have stagnated, with no
 further progress after recent comments from MD and DP. CW
 had received no response to his last mail to MgGilvray. DO
 volunteered to also approach him informally if CW would like to
 try again.
 
 CW write to PB WG Chair requesting an
 update and explaining that proposals were unlikely to
 get into P5 1\.0
 2007\-03\-25
Testing of I18N examples in ODD * CW reported this as done
Tracking system * SR, CW, DO reported that this was now in place as
 planned.



Vilnius meeting
 
 MD reported the main recommendations from the meeting,
 as previously posted to the list. There was a need for more
 examples still, particularly for places. The meeting had
 decided against recommending a general "event" element. CW
 asked what had happened to the idea of an "assert" element:
 the group has decided against this, particularly given the
 global availability of 
 note; LB noted that a better
 way of providing the functionality proposed for
 
 assert might be to enhance the existing
 
 certainty mechanism. SR noted that the use of
 elements from the dictionary module proposed for 
 nym
 revived the module dependency issue. LB said one possibility
 might be simply to move discussion of nyms into the
 dictionary chapter. It was agreed that the two proposals
 should be publicized separately to TEI\-L; council members
 were asked to try testing the proposals.
 
 LB 
 Post information about the new proposals to TEI\-L to solicit
 comment
 2007\-03\-20

All 
 Attempt to encode a place using the proposed tags, and report back to
 Council list 
 2007\-03\-23





Conformance proposals
 
 JC was thanked for the draft, which was generally agreed
 to be on the right track. It raised several key issues which needed wider
 debate than was possible on the call, and it was hoped that all
 Council members would follow CT's example in posting their views on
 the topic to the list as soon as possible, with a view to enabling JC
 to produce a revised draft in time for discussion in Berlin. It
 was agreed that the proposals were not yet ready for circulation
 beyond Council.
 
 All 
 Review the draft at [http://www.tei\-c.org/Drafts/conformance\-draft.pdf](http://www.tei-c.org/Drafts/conformance-draft.pdf) and
 comment to the Council list.
 
 2007\-04\-01

JC 
 Produce revised draft.
 
 2007\-04\-15





The P5 RoadMap 
 There had been a rather poor
 response to the call for volunteers. Council discussed a number of
 ways of addressing this, and agreed that (a) the tasks to be done for
 the first milestone needed to be made more specific and (b) the
 allocation of individuals to tasks needed to be made centrally. SR
 agreed to do the latter task, and in conjunction with LB would draft a
 statement of the former. This would go beyond just "identify and fix
 references to DTDs" to include identification of sections or passages
 in the chapter that were either unclear or outdated. Outcomes from the
 task might include creation of new tickets for more detailed action as
 well as actual editing. The goal was to give council a list of new
 proposed revisions/issues for triage in Berlin. 
 SR, LB  Draft request for chapter
 reviewers 
 2007\-03\-23

SR 
 Allocate chapter reviewers
 
 2007\-03\-23





Berlin Meeting
 
 
 Council members should be available from the morning of Weds 25
 April to that of Sat 28th; it was expected that LR would be posting
 more information about the event on the 25th in due course. CW would
 prepare a detailed agenda for discussion and resolution at the
 meeting. It was noted that after Berlin we would not be able to make
 any further technical decisions influencing the content of the 1\.0
 version. To complement the issues raised by the Council's review , LB
 said that he and SB would produce a list of outstanding issues in
 advance of the meeting.
 
 LB, SB 
 produce consolidated list of outstanding issues to be addressed for P5
 1\.0 
 2007\-04\-15






