---
title: "TEI Technical Council Meeting"
creator: TEI Technical Council
date: 2014-10-03
---
# TEI Technical Council Meeting,





Present: James Cummings (JC \- Chair), Syd Bauman (SB), Hugh
 Cayless (HC), Elli Mylonas (EM (13:12Z)), Sebastian Rahtz (SR), Martin
 Holmes (MH), Paul Schaffner (PFS), Peter Stadler (PWS), Lou Burnard (LB), Fabio
 Ciotti (FC).


Apologies: Stefanie Gehrke (SG)


Started 13:06Z. Ended 14:20Z.



Amber FR: <http://tinyurl.com/teiCouncilAmberFR>


Amber Bugs: <http://tinyurl.com/teiCouncilAmberBugs>


Green FR: <http://tinyurl.com/teiCouncilGreenFR>




 Actions Arising
 
 Action: SR to post to
 Council a reminder of where to find it on GitHub. Duly done: [https://github.com/TEIC/TEI\-Simple](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI-Simple)Action: PWS to continue to act as liaison to Correspondence SIG, reporting back on
 correspDesc work.
 Action: HC to continue to organise November Face2Face meeting
 Action: LB to set up Pure ODD mailing list
 Action: ALL COUNCIL \-\- look at Critical Apparatus Revision draft and send comments
 to HC.
 Action: JC to remind board about translation/internationalisation efforts and our
 questions concerning them.
 Action: EM to act as liaison for Greek translation work and report back to Council.









 TEI Conference, Members Meeting, and Elections (JC)
 
 
- JC requests Council members send him tidbits to announce
 during Council Chair report

- If anyone has ideas that we should query the membership
 about by querying the audience, please let JC know.

- Elections. The ballots have gone out to individual
 members and institutional reps. Get out the vote.





 TEI Simple (SR)
 
 
- Process started last month, will continue until next
 summer. Work so far has concentrated on defining the customization. Expect no
 surprises in the content model: by design, it will be based heavily on existing
 usage of large TEI\-based corpora (EEBO TCP, DTA etc), and will not be counted a
 success unless those corpora can be validated against it without significant
 loss.

- Expecting presentation of processing model in a TEI
 SImple report at TEI MM Conference in Evanston. SR and JC gave some first ideas.
 Imagine markup like:

Action: SR to post to
 Council a reminder of where to find it on GitHub. Duly done: [https://github.com/TEIC/TEI\-Simple](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI-Simple)



 
 Update on correspDesc (PWS)
 
 * Limited progress: task force has had conference call
* Several outstanding issues.
* PWS has made new ODD, available on GitHub at:
 [https://github.com/TEI\-Correspondence\-SIG/correspDesc](https://github.com/TEI-Correspondence-SIG/correspDesc)
* Hoping to have another conference call w/ some TEI Council
 members soon
* Action: PWS should send JC
 a few paragraphs of summary of work to date.
* SIG will be the first SIG to have a Tweet chat 2014\-10\-10 14:00Z. Hash tag? \#TEIChat
 \#AskTEI
Action: PWS to continue to act as liaison to Correspondence SIG, reporting back on
 correspDesc work.



 November Face to Face (HC)
 
 * Meeting is Mon 11\-17 to Wed 11\-19, inclusive; departure after
 lunch on Wed is acceptable, although we have the room all day.
* HC asks that we all finalize our entries on
 nights\-accommodation\-needed Doodle poll by Fri 2014\-10\-10\. It is at \[URL Removed]
* consensus is we’d prefer to eat lunch out, at least 2 of the 3, especially if we can
 bring
 back remnants to nibble.
Action: HC to continue to organise November Face2Face meeting



 Outstanding issues in Pure ODD (LB)
 
 * LB summarise issues posted to council list about pure odd and
 @allowText, etc.
* Consensus was that we had indeed agree to zap @allowText and
 simply support a new element \<mixedContent\>. SR pointed out that this would mean
 changing c. 122 XSL templates in the ODD processing code, but was unfairly laughed
 at. SB
 expressed mild sympathy for SR.
* Discussion of datatypes. Suggested that we leave this alone for
 now; SR said we should limit use of \<rng:data\> to \<macroRef\>, rather than
 allowing it directly in eg \<datatype\>. Investigation needed of the implications of
 this.
* Discussion of varying content models by xpath constraints, to
 allow (eg) different versions of \<p\> in \<text\> and \<teiHeader\>. Much
 thought and experimentation needed here. LB said he would set up a special mailling
 list to
 discuss this area, and get people in and out of Council to join in and define a
 notation
* SB noted that we need a mechanism for indicating experimental
 functionality
Action: LB to set up Pure ODD mailing list



 AOB
 
 * Process of changing SIG (Co\-)Convener
 
	
	* Nothing to do with Council — need to inform the TEI SIG
	 Coordinator which is the Council Chair, so currently JC


- Progress on Critical Apparatus revision (HC)
 
	
	- request for those interested to take a look at [https://docs.google.com/document/d/10R5FfpvCh9v2c2zeG1hgYMcyuT8o\-PfHiaWYVrLf56k/edit?usp\=sharing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/10R5FfpvCh9v2c2zeG1hgYMcyuT8o-PfHiaWYVrLf56k/edit?usp=sharing) \-\- a second draft, following on from the initial one,
	 which engaged a lot of people. Lots of good discussion happening.
	
	Action: ALL COUNCIL \-\- look at Critical Apparatus Revision draft and send comments
	 to HC.

- Greek Guidelines translation (EM)
 
	
	- JC to remind board of our questions about
	 translation/internationalisation
	
	- have made HTML doc sent to me into google spreadsheet and
	 shared with Anna Maria Sihani who had volunteered to work on this. Can remain as her
	 contact.
	
	- More documentation needed on how to do the translation
	
	- Discussion on opening up the translation spreadsheets
	 more widely; Perhaps should be done as particular projects
	
	Action: JC to remind board about translation/internationalisation efforts and our
	 questions concerning them.

Action: EM to act as liaison for Greek translation work and report back to Council.


JC thanked members of Council for participating and reminded them to get on with their
 tickets and actions.





