---
title: "TEI Technical Council Teleconference, 2023-07-17"
date: 2023-07-17
---
# TEI Technical Council Teleconference, 2023-07-17
### Meeting times


* 6:30am PST / 9:30am EST / 2:30pm UTC / 3:30pm CET
* Started: 14:35Z Ended: 16:05Z


### Present:


* Syd Bauman (SB)
* Helena Bermúdez Sabel (HBS)
* Elisa Beshero\-Bondar (EBB, Chair)
* Hugh Cayless (HC)
* Patricia O'Connor (TOC)
* Martina Scholger (MS)
* Sabine Seifert (SS)
* Joey Takeda (JT)
* Magdalena Turska (MT)
* Raff Viglianti (RV)


### Apologies/Not Present:


* Elli Bleeker (EB)
* Janelle Jenstad (JJ)


Previous meeting minutes: [June 2023](https://tei-c.org/activities/council/meetings/tei-technical-council-teleconference-2023-06-09)
Paderborn F2F preparations
--------------------------


* Dates: Sun 03 (morning)–Tue 05 (midday) September
* SIGs planning?
	+ **Action on EBB** to ask SIG conveners for short presentations/reports for the Annual Meeting
* Sun eve 03 Sep dinner event @ Peter Stadler’s
* EBB will be establishing agenda prior to our Aug meeting


Misc business
-------------


Please review dates \& times for future monthly Council meetings — is Fri at 09:30 ET still good for everyone?
Updating documentation re TEI P5 subset? (SS and SB?)


Infrastructure Group update


* Next meeting on Tuesday, July 18


Elections
---------


* **Action on EBB** to check in with Diane: Make sure nominations are posted
	+ perceived issue of EU regulations over nominating others, but shouldn't be an issue with just names and email
* self\-noms due Aug 1
* how to nominate others? Clarify process with Board.
* HC needs to look into OPA Vote


TEI Lite2 customization
-----------------------


* (resolved at Guelph F2F: discuss / assign actions before next TEI release)
* Absorb simplePrint into TEI Lite schema
* Updates to [https://tei\-c.org/guidelines/customization/](https://tei-c.org/guidelines/customization/) ?
* Reminders:
	+ Lite2 should be more like an "on ramp" that doesn't cover all cases but takes us quite far as common ground.
	+ **Action on JJ** to get us started drafting a paragraph for the Customization page and the [TEI Lite](https://tei-c.org/guidelines/customization/Lite/) page that Council can review before Paderborn F2F
	+ **Action on MT** to also get started on the Lite2 customization.
		- MT has begun work on this; teipublisher.odd is merged with teiSimplePrint.odd in terms of models and a few "default" models are added, while superfluous teiSimplePrint ones removed.
		- Next up is looking at differences between TEI Simple and TEI Lite and present the "diff" for the Council for the final decision. MT's proposal is to largely include the elements from Simple which were not present in Lite (but remove numbered divs if they are present in Lite, ha!).
	+ Need to update Lite and other customisations also mentioned in Chapter 22 at: [https://tei\-c.org/release/doc/tei\-p5\-doc/en/html/USE.html\#MDlite](https://tei-c.org/release/doc/tei-p5-doc/en/html/USE.html#MDlite)


Ticket Triage
-------------


reviewed [\#1175](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1175), [\#1861](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1861) (listFigure feature request), [\#2154](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/2154), [\#1428](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1428), [\#1860](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1860), [\#1955](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1955), [\#1981](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1981) (good agenda item for Paderborn F2F), [\#2084](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/2084) (also good agenda item for Paderborn F2F), [\#2095](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/2095)
 


