---
layout: page.njk
title: "TEI Technical Council Meeting,"
---
# TEI Technical Council Meeting,




 Wednesday 19 September 2012
 
 Present:


* Piotr Banski (PB)
* Brett Barney (BB)
* Gabriel Bodard (GB)
* Lou Burnard (LB)
* James Cummings (JC)
* Kevin Hawkins (KH)
* Martin Holmes (MH)
* Paul Schaffner (PS)
* Sebastian Rahtz (SR)
* Rebecca Welzenbach (RW)


Location: IT Services, 13 Banbury Road, Oxford, OX2 8NP \- Kennet Room



 09:30 \- 10:30
 
 
- Review of action items from Ann Arbor FTF: [http://wiki.tei\-c.org/index.php/AnnArbor2012\-Actions](https://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/AnnArbor2012-Actions) 
	
	- The majority are done.
	
	- The official status or otherwise of the stylesheets: JC: should we start breaking
	 out some parts of the repository into separate repositories. LB: The Guidelines should
	 be in one repository and the rest somewhere else. MH: This would create some
	 complications because there are links between different parts of the tree.
	
	- MH and JC have failed to implement the expanded unique 
	 xml:id in
	 guidelines. *Action on MH and JC: implement expanded unique
	 
	 xml:id values in guidelines.*
	
	- Next release: release technician will be PB, and it will happen some time in
	 October. Schedule to be decided later in consultation with PB. Probably near the end
	 of October, and must be done by members’ meeting. *Action on JC:
	 Finalize release date with PB.*
	
	- Is Virginia still a partner? KH: Still pending. *Action on KH: keep
	 up the pressure for a decision on Virginia's partnership.*
	
	- <http://purl.org/tei/bug/3440771> is not finished. *Action on SR:
	 Ensure <http://purl.org/tei/bug/3440771> is completed.*
	
	- Lite will be discussed later, along with Tite.
	
	- <http://purl.org/TEI/FR/2834511>
	 is not done. *Action on LB: Ensure <http://purl.org/TEI/FR/2834511>
	 is completed.*
	
	- *Action on GB: submit a more detailed proposal for <http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3291540>.*
	
	- <http://purl.org/tei/bug/3439980> (div liminal) is not done, but LB is heading up
	 the so\-called div\-liminal working group. One idea for it is to use a set of examples
	 put together by PS, and this should be turned into a web application enabling people
	 to tag examples live online, and we would then look at the results. This will be
	 discussed later on the agenda. RW and KH think having such a tool would be a good
	 idea
	 for discussions on the TEI\-L list etc.
	
	- A/V facsimiles will be dealt with later.
	
	- <http://purl.org/tei/fr/3496494>
	 is not done. *Action on KH and RW: Look at the definition of
	 
	 span and the explanation in 17\.3 to see what needs to be done there as part
	 of <http://purl.org/tei/fr/3496494>*.

- Review of Action Items from teleconference: 
 
	
	- KH: Investigate differences in TEI Tite documentation: Not much progress made yet.
	 Waiting for a response from Apex.
	
	- JC: Suggest to TEI Board that SIG Coordinator post not be limited to members of
	 Council: JC did so, Board is discussing SIGs amongst other reforms.
	
	- KH: Remind Council to look at Google TEI output. *Action on ALL:
	 identify anything we disagree with in their output.*
	
	- *Action on KH: continue to liaise with physical bibliography group in producing a proposal.*
	
	- JC: Produce summary report of TEI\-ODD DH2012 meeting. Done, will be discussed
	 later.
	
	- GB: Remind Council to read XPointer scheme proposal, liaise with authors with any
	 feedback; to be discussed later.
	
	- JC: Produce Face to Face meeting details for attendees. Done.
	
	- JC: Ask Board to clarify process of what to do when a Council member resigns their
	 post. Done.
	
	- MH: Summarize options to Council for archiving TEI Lite. Done.
	
	- All Council: Finish off Ann Arbor Actions; *Action on ALL:
	 continue to complete assigned actions.*
	
	- LB: Report back on transcription of speech and video workshop; Do so after meeting
	 (still upcoming).

- Reports from SIGs (JC) JC has sent SIG reports out to Council list. See [http://lists.village.virginia.edu/pipermail/tei\-council/2012/016257\.html](http://lists.village.virginia.edu/pipermail/tei-council/2012/016257.html)
	
	- LB: Board has suggested that should produce something like a newsletter or a
	 similar kind of outreach activity which should include all of this sort of thing.
	 Collecting these kinds of SIG reports would therefore be the Board’s work. JC: This
	 is
	 actually in the Council’s mandate, as the SIG coordinator currently is meant to be
	 a
	 member of Council, or more recently appointed by Council. LB: Many SIGs don’t actually
	 produce much work relevant for Council. PB: SIGs are all different; some do
	 Council\-preparatory\-style work, while others are less directly related to producing
	 e.g. feature requests. PB: It’s a good thing for the chair to have regular contact
	 with the SIGs to see if they have any concerns. RW: Perhaps SIGs currently respond
	 with only semi\-relevant responses because they feel they need to respond somehow.
	 JC:
	 Asking them for these reports is a fairly new thing, this may improve especially if
	 Council Chair only asks if they have any issues they specifically want Council to
	 consider.

- Deprecation policy: We need to figure out what we're doing. See [KH's summary of current
 practice](https://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/Deprecation) and [stalled discussion](https://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/Talk:Deprecation)
	
	- KH’s summary of current practice has a breakdown into soft deprecation and hard
	 deprecation. MH: Could deprecation be done through the class system? Could we have
	 a
	 deprecated class? JC: Could that work with attributes defined on elements? LB: In
	 addition to soft vs hard, there is also a distinction between situations in which
	 an
	 existing element or attribute has been replaced by a different element or attribute,
	 and the case where a practice was previously sanctioned in the Guidelines, but we
	 now
	 think it’s a bad idea. What’s missing from the taxonomy is the situation where we
	 don’t have a recommendation for a new way of handling it. MH: We should never
	 deprecate something unless we do have a recommendation for replacing it. KH: A TCW
	 should be created on deprecation. *Action on LB and KH: work on that
	 document, and bring it back to Council at the next FTF.*
	
	- Aside: discussion on trackers. LB says people don’t make the distinction between
	 bugs and feature requests. MH: we could merge them, if for no other reason that the
	 purl URLs would be shorter. JC: This would result in only 1 character different
	 /TEI/BUG/\# to TEI/FR/\# so not really a reason for doing this. MH: But it would
	 preclude the need to remember whether an item is BUG or FR; we'd only have to know
	 the
	 id number.

- [Private URI
 Schemes Proposal](https://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/Private_URI_Schemes) (MH)
 
	
	- MH summarized the proposal.
	
	- LB and JC questioned the nomenclature because it’s too restrictive, and think that
	 an expansion mechanism based on regexps should be more generally available for other
	 purposes. MH: like generating XPath. 
	 listPrefixes (or
	 
	 listPrefixDefs) and 
	 prefix (or 
	 prefixDef) should be the
	 element names, and 
	 ident should be used for the prefix attribute.
	 (Discussion over tea break asked if this should be prefixDecl or something else).It
	 is
	 not an error if there is no 
	 matchPattern or 
	 replacementPattern.
	 *Action on MH: rewrite the proposal accordingly and bring this back to
	 Council.*





 10:30 \- 12:30
 
 
 Ticket Breakout Groups
 
 [http://wiki.tei\-c.org/index.php/Council\-ticketTriage](https://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/Council-ticketTriage)



 Tickets not requiring discussion
 
 Initial plenary discussion of Green tickets. Four tickets at the top required no
 discussion, they just need to be completed by those to whom they are assigned: 



- *Action on LB: implement <http://purl.org/TEI/Bug/3547934>.*

- *Action on JC: implement <http://purl.org/TEI/Bug/3540863>.*

- *Action on MH: implement <http://purl.org/TEI/Bug/3472477>.*

- *Action on MH: implement <http://purl.org/TEI/Bug/3432216>.*





 Previously ungrouped green tickets
 
 
- <http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3555190> (Improve guidance and restrict usage of
 biblScope). *Action on LB: implement <http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3555190>.*
 (This should be straightforward.)

- <http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3553304> (
 idno is not available within
 
 biblFull, while it is in 
 bibl and 
 biblStruct). This
 ticket is assigned to KH. He no longer supports making any change to the Guidelines,
 and any change would break backwards compatibility or would multiply encoding
 options to no purpose. 
 idno is allowed in 
 publicationStmt, and
 that’s where it belongs. *Action on KH: close <http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3553304>.*

- <http://purl.org/TEI/BUGS/3520704> (Attributes without examples). LB: this is
 not really a ticket; it’s just ongoing work we need to do. KH: we should ask the
 community for help with this. JC: we should have a good go at this ourselves first,
 but then make a formal request to the at the members’ meeting for community help.
 *Action on All Council: [http://purl.org/TEI/BUGS/3520704:](http://purl.org/TEI/BUGS/3520704).*

- <http://purl.org/TEI/BUGS/3565137> (reconsider membership or use of
 model.glossLike). Already assigned to LB, who will carry it out. *Action on LB: implement <http://purl.org/TEI/BUGS/3565137>.*

- <http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3565152> (reference application/tei\+xml somewhere in
 the Guidelines). On the ticket KH suggested a location for it. Assigned to MH. *Action on MH: produce a draft for approval by Council based on <http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3565152>.*

- <http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3554294> (
 xml:space). This is probably a
 duplicate ticket. The previous one was done by RW. This is assigned to RW to check
 there’s nothing new in this ticket. *Action on RW: Check that all
 action called for on <http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3554294> has been carried out, and close the
 ticket.*

- <http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3547869> (system entities vs. XInclude). JC: Some
 people may look at the Guidelines as an example of best practice, so it’s a bit
 silly to be using entities ourselves. KH: Is XInclude support widely\-supported
 enough? PB: At this level, there is no difference in the toolsets we use. MH: It
 would be preferable to use XIncludes if we can. KH: This should be a low\-priority
 job, but it is desirable. Assigned to SR. *Action on SR: switch
 rendering system from use of entities to XInclude, if practical, per <http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3547869>.*

- <http://purl.org/TEI/BUGS/3539329> (Inconsistency in data.name). (Related to
 <http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3511398>).
 Both assigned to MH. On the first one, the definition just needs to be copied into
 the four locations. *Action on MH: for <http://purl.org/TEI/BUGS/3539329>,
 copy definition of data.name into all four locations. On <http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3511398>,
 produce a list of candidate attribute values which might be constrained with
 Schematron.*

- <http://purl.org/TEI/BUGS/3520414> (Example does not conform with description
 in Core chapter). LB: the original action is done, so this ticket should be closed
 and a new one opened to deal with the TEI\-L discussion. MH will do this, and assign
 the new one to himself. *Action on MH: close <http://purl.org/TEI/BUGS/3520414>,
 and open a new ticket to deal with linking of quotations and references.*

- <http://purl.org/TEI/BUGS/3521714> (revise valList and valItem, revise ch. 22
 accordingly). This was assigned to SY, so it needs to be reassigned. Assigned to LB.
 *Action on LB: improve wording per <http://purl.org/TEI/BUGS/3521714>.*





 Amber tickets
 
 
- <http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3531957> (allow a footer for a table). We are convinced
 about this; there should be a reference to model.divBottomPart at the end of table.
 Assigned to MH to carry out. *Action on MH: implement <http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3531957>.*

- <http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3511398> (Need to implement Schematron rules for
 attribute values). LB: The best approach is to create a list of candidate attribute
 values that are amenable to Schematron constraints. Assigned to MH. *Action on MH: implement <http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3511398>.*

- <http://purl.org/TEI/FR/2834511> (Add more elements to att.spanning with
 schematron constraint). Assigned to LB. *Action on LB: implement
 Schematron rules per <http://purl.org/TEI/FR/2834511>.*

- <http://purl.org/TEI/Bug/3496949> (Guidelines, p. 388 \-
 "\<wit\>\[unattested]\</wit\>" ). Submitted by GB. The Guidelines simply need
 an additional example. GB will carry out version A of his proposal. *Action on GB: implement proposal a) in <http://purl.org/TEI/Bug/3496949>*.

- <http://purl.org/TEI/Bug/3496958> (Guidelines, p. 384 \- number of 
 rdg
 in 
 app). MH previously carried out the Council’s intent to add a Schematron
 restriction, but Council now accepts that this was a mistake. Now assigned to GB to
 remove the constraint, and clarify the Guidelines text. *Action on
 GB: remove constraint and clarify Guidelines text per <http://purl.org/TEI/Bug/3496958>.*

- <http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3496494> (make attributes 
 from and
 
 to (as pointers) part of a class). LB is not convinced that any of the
 uses of 
 from and 
 to could be put into a class. Assigned to LB
 to clarify the wording in the Guidelines. *Action on LB: Propose new
 wording for Guidelines per <http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3496494>.*

- <http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3291540> (att.editLike should not bring att.dimensions
 \& att.ranging). Re\-assigned to GB, who will produce a detailed proposal for a
 fix, prior to implementation. *Action on GB: create a proposal for
 Council to consider based on <http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3291540>.*

- <http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3284816> (att.canonical for model.persTraitLike). LB
 thinks each individual attribute proposed should be examined individually. In the
 process of discussing this ticket, we found and fixed a typo (
 source
 instead of 
 scheme) in a spec. Action on this ticket: JC will come up with
 a slightly more detailed proposal. *Action on JC: produce a detailed
 proposal per <http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3284816>.*







 12:30 \- 13:30: Lunch
 

 13:30 \- 15:00
 
 
 
 Report on TEI ODD Workshop; ODD Proposals (JC/SR)
 
 The committee discussed all the
 points in the summary report at [http://www.tei\-c.org/Activities/Council/Working/tcw26\.xml](/Activities/Council/Working/tcw26.xml). The next action is for JC and Laurent Romary to coordinate
 the production of one or more papers for the Proceedings of DH 2012 laying out all
 the
 options discussed and proposing implementation plans for the high\-priority items.
 The
 original meeting notes and the summary will be converted into TEI by JC. *Action on KH: KH will find a place to put ODD meeting notes and summary, probably
 in
 TCW.**Action on JC: Convert TEI ODD meeting notes and summary to
 TEI and put on website; Liaise with Laurent Romary and other participants about a
 possible publication of a summary article for Proceedings of DH 2012\.*




 Resolving Durand Conundrum: c.f. (LB)
 
 
 
 LB explained his Foxglove hypothesis (<http://foxglove.hypotheses.org/368>),
 and MH and JC are interested in helping to work on it. SR is concerned about the
 redirection of resources into this effort when other priorities are more urgent. MH
 wondered if this should constitute the beginning of P6 development, but LB and JC
 argued
 that this is neither necessary nor perhaps justifiable according to the Birnbaum
 doctrine which says Such transitions \[between major PX versions] should happen
 only in response to the emergence of new technologies (e.g., the transition from SGML
 to
 XML) or the development of a new architecture that conveys substantial benefit (e.g.,
 the development of the new class system) and that this wasn’t a new
 architecture, just an extension of it. Council discussed the issue of whether this
 should be a priority or not, and it does not seem to be the case that there is any
 comparably long\-term and large\-scale project except for the proposed Roma rewrite.
 KH
 raised the issue of any changes to existing schema languages \-\- how would such changes
 be reflected in our own language? JC, SR, MH and LB claim that any new, advantageous
 additions to any of the existing schema languages could easily be adopted into our
 TEI
 language. We could benefit greatly from being able to support more aspects of XML
 Schema, which is widely used in the commercial sector \-\- for example, the ability
 to
 constrain content models differently in different contexts, which is possible in XML
 Schema but not in RelaxNG. In theory, you can already put XML Schema into a content
 model, and it would be valid, but it wouldn’t actually cause anything to happen because
 our processors are only expecting RelaxNG. Council in principle approves this form
 of
 resolution of the so\-called Durand Conundrum, and awaits LB’s more detailed proposal
 or
 ODD. *Action on LB: develop his Durand Conundrum paper into a specific
 set of proposals for a new 
 content structure, so that we can then take that to
 the larger ODD\-implementing community for work and feedback.*




 XPointer Proposal (GB)
 
 Hugh Cayless's proposal is available here: [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1JsMA\-gOGrevyY\-crzHGiC7eZ8XdV5H\_wFTlUGzrf20w/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1JsMA-gOGrevyY-crzHGiC7eZ8XdV5H_wFTlUGzrf20w/edit).
 GB proposes that we postpone this conversation, because there were objections and
 questions in the teleconference about it, and the working group has not had time to
 respond to those. *Action on All Council: Council members (e.g. PB, LB
 and GB) will add comments directly to HC’s original proposal by the end of October,
 and
 then we will be happy to receive any further drafts of it.*





 15:00 \- 17:30
 
 
 Ticket Breakout Groups
 
 
- <http://purl.org/TEI/Bug/3440771> (Multiple 
 geo tags in
 
 location). Assigned to SR to implement what is summarized in KH’s post on the
 ticket from April 16\. *Action on SR: Implement KH's recommendations
 from 2012\-04\-16 in <http://purl.org/TEI/Bug/3440771>.*

- <http://purl.org/TEI/Bug/3439980> (content model of 
 signed). Is a
 
 signed a block of things which can consist of a list of names etc., or is it
 the signature itself? Council concludes that this should be dealt with by moving
 
 signed from macro.phraseSeq to macro.paraContent (though that should be
 double\-checked at time of implementation). BB makes the point that the examples have
 a
 range of different and conflicting examples, and none of them contain 
 list,
 but LB holds that the examples should be left alone until the div.liminal working
 group reports on usage of 
 signed by PS and LB is complete. Assigned to SR.
 *Action on SR: change the content model of signed to macro.paraContent,
 check for unexpected side\-effects, and rationalize all current examples to a single
 practice and add one with 
 list inside 
 signed (see <http://purl.org/TEI/Bug/3439980>).*

- <http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3526114>
 (add 
 type to 
 msDesc). JC has argued that since 
 msDesc can occur multiply in
 the same e.g. 
 listBibl, you should be able to distinguish them with
 
 type. Council policy has been that when 
 att.typed is
 requested on an element, this should be considered if it is repeatable and has clear
 use\-cases where it would be classified. Assigned to GB to implement. *Action on GB: add 
 msDesc to 
 att.typed per <http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3526114>.*

- <http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3060867>
 (Grouping traitlike, statelike, and eventlike elements). PB had started to implement
 this but got stuck when conflicts emerged between the repeated declarations of
 
 state. The solution may be to make all the statelike things available in
 
 list, and make 
 list available in 
 person and friends. GB:
 This would give rise to some oddities that we don’t currently have, such as
 
 country in 
 person. Another approach is to answer the use\-case with
 standoff markup, pointing to elements external to the 
 person element or
 inside it. Many people are uncomfortable with using the generic 
 list for
 this, because it would generalize the oddities to lots of other contexts. So the two
 options are to create a generic 
 listState, and use Schematron and Guidelines
 recommendations to say that only the logical state\- and trait\-like elements can occur
 within it when it’s 
 person or 
 place etc.; and to create separate
 
 listPersonState and 
 listPlaceState etc. elements, each of which has
 a separate content model and can occur only in a specific context. None of the
 proposed solutions seems to be universally popular. GB: leaving aside the name of
 the
 element, events, traits and states can all occur within a person element, but there
 is
 no useful way to group them; that’s really all we need. Are we talking about a list
 or
 a group here? RW: These groupings don’t seem like lists or groups. PB: We may as well
 just use 
 list, because it would be less prescriptive. GB: We should go back
 to the original proposal of 
 listState, available in 
 person,
 
 place and 
 org, and allow it to contain all the elements allowed
 inside the parent element. GB: Since it may be important to group these elements in
 ways which overlap, 
 linkGrp and 
 link may be more appropriate. This
 is available inside 
 person. JC: it’s not yet available in 
 place,
 
 org and 
 event, so that should be remedied. Action: Respond with the
 suggestion to use 
 linkGrp and 
 link, and add 
 linkGrp and
 
 link to 
 place, 
 org and 
 event. We’ll discuss how to
 do that in the next ticket. Assigned to PB. *Action on PB: add
 link/linkGrp to 
 place, 
 org and 
 event per <http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3060867>.*

- <http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3536363>
 (rationalize content models of org and place). Discussion was diverted away from the
 ticket to the larger issue raised by Peter Stadler: [http://sourceforge.net/mailarchive/message.php?msg\_id\=29144155](http://sourceforge.net/mailarchive/message.php?msg_id=29144155). GB: The
 proposal there was to suggest that we look at those different content models,
 rationalize them, create a model of the things shared between them, and create a
 separate model for that. *Action on JC: create a proposal for the
 changes required per <http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3536363>, and with reference to [http://sourceforge.net/mailarchive/message.php?msg\_id\=29144155](http://sourceforge.net/mailarchive/message.php?msg_id=29144155).*

- <http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3504690>
 (floatingDiv proposal). Council had previously rejected the floatingDiv proposal as
 it
 was, asking for new examples. PS provided three more examples:
	* [http://www.umich.edu/\~pfs/divlim/samples\_2/floatdiv1\.pdf](http://www.umich.edu/~pfs/divlim/samples_2/floatdiv1.pdf)
	* [http://www.umich.edu/\~pfs/divlim/samples\_2/floatdiv2\.pdf](http://www.umich.edu/~pfs/divlim/samples_2/floatdiv2.pdf)
	* [http://www.umich.edu/\~pfs/divlim/samples\_2/floatdiv3\.pdf](http://www.umich.edu/~pfs/divlim/samples_2/floatdiv3.pdf) but Council still did not find these more convincing than the earlier ones.
 The Council generally agrees with the comment on the ticket to the effect that there
 is not enough convincing evidence for the need for 
 floatingDiv, and will
 close the ticket pending any new concrete submissions. JC to close ticket. *Action on JC: close <http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3504690>.*

- <http://purl.org/TEI/bug/3439587> (Problems introduced by content models of
 
 bibl and 
 imprint). KH: if we agree with MH’s use case, we should add
 
 sponsor and 
 funder to 
 editionStmt and to 
 monogr.
 No objections were raised. LB: if the content models had 
 respStmt changed to
 
 model.respLike the desired outcome would happen. KH: This will work for
 
 editionStmt, but this might give rise to a non\-deterministic content model in
 the case of 
 monogr, so in that case we need to add 
 sponsor and
 
 funder manually. LB: There is a simpler way: rationalize the content model of
 
 monogr. But this is not a simple task; 
 monogr is a bit of a mess. We
 could try replacing the parts of the content model that include 
 respStmt with
 
 model.respLike. Assigned to KH to implement. *Action on
 KH: replace 
 respStmt with 
 model.respLike in
 
 editionStmt; then review 
 monogr with the idea of simplifiying it and
 including 
 model.respLike per <http://purl.org/TEI/bug/3439587>.*





 
 19:30: Supper
 
 Supper: [http://www.al\-shami.co.uk/](http://www.al-shami.co.uk/)
 (Middle Eastern





 Thursday 20 September 2012
 
 Present:


* Piotr Banski (PB)
* Brett Barney (BB)
* Gabriel Bodard (GB)
* Lou Burnard (LB)
* James Cummings (JC)
* Kevin Hawkins (KH)
* Martin Holmes (MH)
* Elena Pierazzo (EP) (Visiting as Chair of TEI Board)
* Paul Schaffner (PS)
* Sebastian Rahtz (SR)
* Rebecca Welzenbach (RW)


Location: Buttery, Wolfson College, Linton Road, Oxford, OX2 6UD


(Joined by Elena Pierazzo, Chair of the TEI)



 09:45 \- 11:00
 
 JC welcomed EP to the Council meeting.



 Roma Templates and Example Customizations
 
 
- The purpose of this discussion is to align Roma and the TEI customization web
 page, and clarify categorizations of customizations (e.g., What does
 experimental or restricted mean?)

- Two things to do: fix the language on the TEI customization web page ([http://www.tei\-c.org/Guidelines/Customization/index.xml](/Guidelines/Customization/) ), and decide what will
 be included in Roma as an available customization in the drop down list. In
 particular, is there a distinction to be made between things like Bare, Lite, and
 the
 MS or drama customizations?

- Those who teach workshops using Roma like the pre\-existing templates

- MH: Roma should not appear to support things that TEI Council doesn’t support,
 because it leads people to think Roma is broken (i.e., community customizations should
 be clearly external)

- *Action on LB: In Roma, split the existing create
 customization from template button into two options: create
 customization from template and create customization from community
 customization, which can be opened from a list in the wiki ([http://www.tei\-c.org/wiki/index.php/Category:Customization](/wiki/index.php/Category:Customization)) or the TEI\-C
 Website. also remove the label experimental from those items in the
 drop down menu that have it.*

- Spelling of customiz/sation needs to be made consistent. *Action on
 MH: Normalize spelling of customization in Guidelines and
 Roma.*

- *Action on KH: remove experimental and
 restricted language from TEI Customization page. Use instead:
 the following are not available as DTD or XSD.*

- *Action on SR: give admin access to JC and MH to Oxygen TEI
 repository.*

- If we go forward with pointing from Roma to the wiki page, Council should contact
 the owners of customizations and ask if they want to update/add to the
 customization.





 Div.Liminal (LB)
 
 
- LB proposes that we create a web app for letting people do sample encodings,
 gather examples via competition/community engagement.

- Discussion of whether to offer pre\-determined multiple choice options (more work
 upfront to create examples) or seek open ended answers (more work after to
 collate).

- PS volunteers to collate results.

- KH: make clear that people may interpret the guidelines as written, or propose an
 ideal/rational encoding not currently not currently allowed by the Guidelines.

- MH: Exide might be a useful tool to use ([http://exist\-db.org/exist/eXide/index.html](http://exist-db.org/exist/eXide/index.html).

- *Action on MH: provide tech support to existing div.liminal
 working group (LB, KH, PS) regarding setup of eXist and eXide.*

- *Action on LB / PS / KH: Div.Liminal Working group will report
 back to council with rational proposals of how to deal with tops and bottoms of
 
 divs.*





 LingSIG issues (PB)
 
 
- PB is introducing a LingSig experimental space on SourceForge. Wonders if TEI will
 be moving to GitHub. 
 
	
	- Discussion of pros and cons of moving part of TEI repository on GitHub;
	 conclusion that in any case P5 will be on SourceForge for forseeable future until
	 clear benefits make a move inevitable.

- *Action on PB: <http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3561933> is already assigned to PB.*

- In answers to questions from PB, EP noted various details about the TEI
 Conference.






 11:00 \- 12:30
 
 
 Ticket Processing
 
 
- <http://purl.org/TEI/Bug/3555602> (Odd by example). Is it the Council’s place to
 maintain this, or should it be on the wiki? 
 
	
	- oddbyexample.xsl is a stylesheet by SR that takes in lots of TEI that you feed
	 in, and makes its best guess at generating an ODD from your encoding
	
	- It produces the older version of ODD: inclusion rather than exclusion.
	
	- Council agrees that the concept is great, but there is concern about feature
	 request creep.
	
	- Discussion about whether Council should support freestanding TEI tools in the
	 core repository (this would be a new category of stylesheets, etc. to
	 support).
	
	- MH: two different questions: 1\) just let oddbyexample sit in the repository? 2\)
	 Should Council actively seek to maintain freestanding tools?
	
	- KH updated wiki to document oddbyexample
	
	- *Action on MH: proof and expand wiki documentation for
	 oddbyexample by KH [http://wiki.tei\-c.org/index.php/Oddbyexample](https://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/Oddbyexample).*
	
	- *Action on SR: review the tools, add ons, and other code
	 currently in the TEI repository that perhaps should be removed (because they are not
	 core to the functioning of the Guidelines).*
	
	- Wider problem: we need clear, obvious explanation of tools, add on, stylesheets,
	 etc. because most users don’t know they exist/are available. *Action
	 on LB / KH: to find the text SR drafted, edit it, and tell KH where to put it on the
	 website.*
	
	- Council agrees that for now, oddbyexample should be a separate add\-on tool
	 documented in the wiki, while a future Roma should consider supporting the
	 functionality of generating an odd from your provided encoded texts.

- <http://purl.org/TEI/Bug/3376456> (deprecate use of 
 gram except as a
 child of 
 gramGrp). Waiting on KH and LB to formulate deprecation procedure,
 as assigned yesterday. *Action on LB: When deprecation procedure is
 formulated, deprecate use of 
 gram except as a child of 
 gramGrp per
 <http://purl.org/TEI/Bug/3376456>.*

- <http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3555191>
 (New element \< citedRange \> for bibliography). 
 
 
	
	- Discussion of possible ways of citing a range cited, as opposed to the range of an
	 entire work: 
	 biblScope, 
	 ref, or the proposed
	 
	 citedRange
	
	- MH: if many examples of 
	 citedRange also include a 
	 bibleScope,
	 this will help clarify the difference for users.
	
	- *Action on KH: create 
	 citedRange, allowing
	 
	 target to point out to a source. The full description of the cited range
	 (e.g., volume, page, column, line) should simply be plain text inside
	 
	 citedRange. The content model of 
	 citedRange will be
	 
	 macro.phraseSeq. Change the gloss of 
	 biblScope from
	 (scope of citation) to (scope of reference); Returning
	 to Council as needed for implementation advice (see <http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3555191>). In
	 addition, implement new ticket (<http://purl.org/tei/fr/3570037>): add 
	 unit to 
	 biblScope and
	 deprecate the use of 
	 type.*






 12:30 \- 13:30: Lunch
 

 13:30 \- 15:00
 
 
 Board Proposals for Council Consideration (EP)
 
 
- EP reports on shrinking budget, institutional membership issues. Board is
 assessing options for reducing costs, sustaining income, incentivizing membership.
 Council is invited to contribute proposals, ideas and suggestions, either as
 individuals or as a body.

- Some ideas resulting: 
 
	
	- Should one of the TEI Council Meetings be before DH Conference? (General
	 consensus seems to be it might be a good idea, though almost no existing council
	 members would directly benefit.)
	
	- Should the size of board and/or council, and/or the number of people who attend
	 each f2f meeting, be reduced? (Council agrees that even with a lower budget, we
	 would want to keep the same number of members.)
	
	- Should council have a limited amount of subsidy per meeting and more
	 remotely\-participating members?
	
	- What is a sustainable/reasonable level of membership in the TEI consortium, both
	 in terms of cost, and size/influence of the member (a person, an
	 organization)?
	
	- Translations: Discussed difficulties of keeping I18N of element descriptions up
	 to date. LB mentioned translation memory systems, for example OmegaT <http://www.omegat.org/en/omegat.html>.
	
	- Translation of the guidelines, website is one way to seek buy\-in from European
	 communities.
	
	- Institutional membership has only been considered from the POV of the North
	 American university business model. In Europe, Asia, etc., institutional
	 contribution to initiatives like TEI\-C are managed differently.





 Documentation on writing ODDs
 
 
- We have very similar information on writing ODDs [in the
 Guidelines](/release/doc/tei-p5-doc/en/html/USE.html#MD) and [on the
 TEI\-C website](/Guidelines/Customization/odds.xml#body.1_div.2). These should be merged into one place. Where should the merged
 documentation be? Can someone review each document to make sure it's accurate before
 we
 ask someone to merge the two? 
 
	
	- *Action on MH: review the ODD tutorial on the website and update
	 it as needed. New ticket created for this: <http://purl.org/tei/bug/3570106>.*
	
	- *Action on KH: after Martin has finished updating the tutorial,
	 synchronize the tutorial and the Guidelines by adding any
	 
	 essential bits from the tutorial to the guidelines (without
	 turning the prose of the Guidelines into a tutorial), and checking for consistency
	 between Guidelines and tutorial.*

- Questions for candidates (See David Sewell's Email [http://lists.village.virginia.edu/pipermail/tei\-council/2012/016259\.html](http://lists.village.virginia.edu/pipermail/tei-council/2012/016259.html)) 
 
	
	- Council would rather see a more detailed prompt for the candidate statement than a
	 list of questions to be answered.
	
	- Council members who have further thoughts can send them directly to the
	 nominations committee, or to JC.
	
	- *Action on JC: Council will discuss on list the precise wording of
	 the prompt for the candidate statement; JC to initiate, and report back to nominations
	 committee.*






 15:00 \- 16:30
 
 
 Ticket Breakout Groups
 
 
- Group A
 
	
	- <http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3565878> (
	 idno inside 
	 biblStruct)
	 
	 
		
		- LB has corrected the example in the Guidelines that illustrated 
		 idno
		 as a child of 
		 biblStruct, moving the idno within 
		 monogr
		
		- *Action on LB: Add some prose to this chapter of the
		 guidelines to put the 
		 idno within 
		 monogr, and/or
		 
		 analytic, and/or 
		 series (as it applies).*
		
		- Council agrees to 
		 deprecate
		idno as a child of
		 
		 biblStruct. We should not make the change now because TEI has modeled
		 this (in example and its own practice) for too long.
		
		- *Action on LB: fix the TEI Guidelines bibliography so that its
		 
		 idnos are inside 
		 monogr; see ticket <http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3565878>.*
	
	- <http://purl.org/TEI/bug/3547289> (model.gramPart and 
	 cit) 
	 
		
		- *Action on KH: to carry out the work set out by KH and Laurent
		 on the ticket (<http://purl.org/TEI/bug/3547289>).* This comprises:
			* Create a new model class (
			 model.structuredEntryPart) which
			 contains as members all of the current members of 
			 model.entryPart
			 except for the grammatical features that can occur inside of 
			 gramGrp
			 (
			 model.morphLike).
			* Change 
			 model.entryPart so that it includes as members
			 
			 model.structuredEntryPart and
			 
			 model.morphLike.
			* Change 
			 cit and 
			 nym to use
			 
			 model.structuredEntryPart instead of
			 
			 model.entryPart.
		
		- This will break backwards compatibility and it would also require changing
		 examples that will be rendered invalid. We agreed to do these things
		 neverthelesss.

- Group B
 
	
	- <http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3561933> (Encoding of Standoff annotations). 
	 
		
		- Council agrees with Group B who thinks that this will be a beneficial addition
		 to the TEI and that an we should have a container element 
		 standOff as
		 part of model.resouceLike which contains things like
		 
		 linkGrp/
		 link, 
		 seg/
		 ab/
		 s/etc. and
		 various other elements, including some new elements to be discussed by a later
		 working party.
		
		- *Action on LB / PB / MH / RW / JC: A working group including
		 LB, PB, MH, RW, JC will come back with a formal proposal for a standoff markup
		 container element. See <http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3561933>.*
	
	- <http://purl.org/TEI/BUGS/3532022> (
	 lg should be allowed in
	 
	 p). 
	 
		
		- Group B agrees with this one and thinks it should be added to
		 
		 model.inter, resolving any resulting ambiguous content models.
		 After significant discussion Council accepted this decision.
		
		- *Action on MH: implement <http://purl.org/TEI/BUGS/3532022>.*
	
	- <http://purl.org/TEI/BUGS/3519806> (
	 name should be a member of
	 
	 att.datable). 
	 
		
		- Group B agrees with this one as well, 
		 name should claim membership of
		 
		 att.datable. Further rationalization of these should be
		 examined.
		
		- Council agrees that 
		 name should be a member of
		 
		 att.datable; it should probably also be a member of
		 
		 att.personal but this should be considered further by the
		 implementor.
		
		- *Action on JC: implement <http://purl.org/TEI/BUGS/3519806>.*

- Group C 
 
	
	- <http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3523791> (an addition to 
	 timeline to record
	 stretches of time). 
	 
		
		- EP proposes that Council revisit the way temporal linking is handled as a
		 whole.
		
		- LB expects that this will be addressed to some degree in the Berlin multimedia
		 meeting in October, from which he will report back.
		
		- Council agrees to close this ticket categorized as rejected. The Guidelines
		 already supports a way to do what SR is asking for, but agree that temporal
		 linking should be re\-examined as a whole at some point in the future.
	
	- <http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3518932> (Use 
	 range instead of abusing
	 
	 from on 
	 span) 
	 
		
		- *Action on GB: to submit a ticket requesting clarification in
		 the prose of the Guidelines on the use of 
		 from on other elements such
		 as 
		 locus and 
		 biblScope. Close the originating ticket <http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3518932> as it
		 stands as won’t fix.*
	
	- <http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3523225> (New attribute 
	 keepHyphen) 
	 
		
		- Council agrees not to fix this ticket because a better solution exists,
		 involving 
		 glyph and 
		 g as suggested by LB on the ticket.
		
		- *Action on EP: to find an example to incorporate into the
		 Guidelines demonstrating LB's encoding solution for the issue raised in <http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3523225>.*
		
		- *Action on LB: Add clarification of the issues raised in <http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3523225> to
		 the Guidelines (3\.2\.2\) CO.html\#COPU\-2 existing discussion of
		 hyphenation.*
		
		- *Action on LB: to correct the definition of 
		 g in the
		 Guidelines: represents a glyph, or a non\-standard character
		 following issues raised in <http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3523225>.*
		
		- *Action on LB: to close <http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3523225> with
		 explanation.*






 16:30 \- 17:30: Discussion and supper plans
 
 
- Supper was at <http://www.victoriaarms.co.uk>, a nearby pub run by the Oxford Preservation Trust
 (British pub food).

- SR offered punting up the river for some lucky members of the Council to the
 pub.






 Friday 21 September 2012
 
 Present:


* Piotr Banski (PB)
* Brett Barney (BB)
* Gabriel Bodard (GB)
* Lou Burnard (LB)
* James Cummings (JC)
* Kevin Hawkins (KH)
* Martin Holmes (MH)
* Paul Schaffner (PS)
* Sebastian Rahtz (SR)
* Rebecca Welzenbach (RW)


Location: Buttery, Wolfson College, Linton Road, Oxford, OX2 6UD



 09:30 \- 10:30
 
 
 Financial issues
 
 How much does the Council have left in its
 budget, and what should we do with it? Options are to save it for travel next year,
 when
 budgets will shrink; donate it back to the main budget; or use it for a code bounty
 for
 e.g. Roma rewrite (for which we might apply to the ALLC for matching funds). 




 Code Bounties
 
 
 Code Bounties as possibility for money Council has saved through tight budgeting,
 institutional contributions, and savings because of agglomeration of current Council
 members:



- The two main candidates for code bounties are the Roma front\-end and a second ODD
 processor. After some discussion, we came to the conclusion that in the case of an
 ODD
 processor, we would be open to the use of any language/platform, but in the case of
 the Roma ODD\-editing interface, we would probably want to specify in advance a list
 of
 tools/languages we would feel comfortable with taking on, since Roma will be owned
 and
 operated by the TEI in the long term.

- Other possibilities are: tools for working with ODDs, such as an ODD\-diffing tool,
 or ODD visualization tools. Council agrees with JC that it would be a good thing if
 a
 new Roma were written somewhere other than Oxford, and preferably in the larger
 community rather than just by existing Council members. The exact specification for
 a
 new ODD processor would be very difficult to write, in that there are lots of aspects
 of ODD output which are currently undetermined. We could put out a general code bounty
 with a list of things we are interested in, and choose among the proposals we receive.
 KH: we have consensus that a new Roma is the sort of thing we know we need, and which
 needs to be in place before the TEI starts to rebrand and re\-advertise itself. JC:
 it
 seems to be our view that the majority of a code bounty should go towards a rewrite
 of
 the Roma interface. Should it be owned by us, or should it be in its own repo in SF
 or
 GitHub? The consensus is that TEI\-C should own a Roma rewrite. RW: it would be
 desirable for a new Roma to be open\-ended in such a way that subsequently\-developed
 ODD\-processing tools could be plugged into it via some plug\-in API.

- *Action on JC and LB: Resolved: JC and LB will produce a draft of
 a code bounty for a loose specification for a Roma rewrite, which will come back to
 Council for comments. This will include a list of preferred languages/tools, the need
 for a plugin API etc. Council aims to release a public call in about two to three
 months, with the idea that work will begin early in 2013\.*





 Options for freezing and/or archiving Lite
 
 LB has spent considerable time bringing Lite up to date, and now wants to publicize
 the up\-to\-date
 version. Options for freezing Lite:


* It is archived in the Vault and the link points permanently to that location, and
 Lite is never changed;
* Every new release would include a new build of Lite, but we would not make any
 changes at all;
* Or, we continue to maintain Lite (in the sense of fixing anything that gets
 broken, but not in the sense of adding anything new to Lite).


SR: this (the last) is the way we’ve been doing it for years. JC: This is why it
 got so out of date. We should freeze it and point at a static version. SR: That leaves
 us in the situation that a Lite version available through Oxygen may have an element
 or
 attribute that is at significant variance from the current version of TEI it’s
 distributed with. LB: One of the features of the TEI that we advertise is the
 possibility of building a schema against a previous version of the TEI. SR: That’s
 great, but it’s different from distributing such a schema as an official TEI product.
 MH: We could actually decide not to freeze it; it’s not very onerous to maintain it.
 KH:
 The same arguments apply to TEI Tite. JC: So it seems that we’re reversing our decision
 from Ann Arbor (2012\-04\) on Lite and Tite which was that we didn’t want to take on
 the
 maintence burdern of Lite. KH: It seems odd that the TEI would give up on its
 entry\-level tutorial customization, which is one of its most popular ones. The big
 advantage of the Lite prose is that it’s a manageable overview of the salient features
 of TEI. SR: Perhaps freezing should mean freezing of the intellectual
 effort that gave rise to the original subset. **Conclusion**: we
 reverse our decision to freeze Lite, and will instead continue to build it with every
 release, as well as making an effort to keep the documentation up to date. This applies
 to Tite as well. In the release notes for the next version we will note that the prose
 has been brought up to date, and that the naming convention has changed.




 Move TEI to GitHub?
 
 Already discussed: we might think about
 separating out the Guidelines from other stuff, so individual scripts may end up on
 GitHub under other people’s control. There is an ongoing action for SR to gradually
 remove his non\-Guidelines\-related tools and utilities from the main repository, for
 the
 sake of clarity. RW: We also discussed the issue of moving to Git within SF; this
 might
 give us some advantages in terms of multiple repos or sub\-repos. MH: Can someone be
 tasked with investigating all the features of Git on SF and GitHub, as well as the
 possibilities for granularity of permissions in SF’s Subversion, so we can answer
 these
 questions definitively? KH: It would be a good goal that everything not essential
 to the
 Guidelines should be in a separate repository, which lots of people could have access
 to, without the possibility of breaking the Guidelines tools. SR: My current plan
 is to
 cut back what is already there, and then fork it when it’s minimal Guidelines\-only
 material. GB: Once this is done, we probably do have a reason to be working with Git.
 *Action on SR: SR will continue his work to pare down the repository and
 remove non\-Guidelines\-related material.*




 Deprecation of TEI P4
 
 JC: The community has been warned
 previously that P4 is due to be deprecated, and now we need to take the steps necessary
 to enact that, such as remove its prominence from the website from November 2012\.
 LB: An
 informal survey of well\-known TEI projects shows that about 90% of them are still
 using
 P4\. PS: Is it possible to generate a P4 schema now, using available tools? MH: PizzaChef
 still works, and is linked on the TEI website. JC: Existing P4 DTDs will continue
 to
 work, and Guidelines will still be available (from the Vault). We might as well leave
 PizzaChef available as long as it’s clear that it’s not supported. PB: P4 should
 definitely be removed from the Oxygen package. LB: We need to have a small publicity
 campaign and write to a small list of people who need to be reminded again (such as
 oXygen). PB: Oxygen does take statistics of who is using what; we should contact George
 and ask him how many people are still using P4 actively. LB: Note that other XML
 languages don’t have more than one version available (e.g., DocBook) in
 


oXygen/.JC: Who else apart from SyncRO Soft and the TEI\-L list should be
 contacted and warned? If anyone has other suggestions, let JC know. *Action on JC: Contact stakeholders to remind them of upcoming TEI P4 deprecation;
 notify TEI\-L community; Liaise with KH and David Sewell (TEI\-C Webmaster) on changes
 to
 website.*


 10:30 \- 12:30
 
 
 Ticket Breakout Groups
 
 
- <http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3556778>
 (retaining punctuation marks in the text of a TEI document). PB, BB and RW: There
 are
 four parts to this ticket, including issues with whether you should retain punctuation
 such as quote marks within an encoding, and if so, whether they should be inside or
 outside an element. Some members are reluctant to make clear recommendations one way
 or the other, but we should recommend that people document their practice, whatever
 it
 is. Chapter 3\.2\.1 doesn’t mention that you might use the 
 quotation element in
 the header to explain your encoding practice, and it should. The implication of the
 Guidelines text is that you should include them, and this should be made explicit.
 A
 new attribute might be created which would enable you to specify whether quotation
 marks are inside or outside the element. This might apply to other punctuation marks,
 such as brackets around stage directions. MH: there are already ways to do this,
 including the use of 
 rendition/
 rendition. BB: that’s not the same thing at all; this
 starts from the assumption that you have captured the punctuation marks, and you want
 to document where you put them. LB: The element 
 quotation is too specific,
 perhaps, and should be 
 punctuation. RW agrees. One proposal would be to
 introduce a new element 
 punctuation in 
 encodingDesc, and deprecate
 
 quotation. PB and BB are reluctant to remove 
 quotation. Aside:
 
 form is deprecated, but the prose doesn’t say so. GB: Should we have a
 
 punctuation element that contains 
 quotation? PS \& GB: This
 should be repeatable because different punctuation might be handled differently. LB:
 this (like other sibling elements) need not be machine\-processable; that would be
 difficult to do. *Action on RW and LB:define a new element called
 
 punctuation which is a member of ~~model.encodingDescPart~~

model.editorialDeclPart
 and
 
 att.declarable, with prose content, and some attribute(s) defining the
 handling of punctuation marks. It should be repeatable.*

- <http://purl.org/TEI/BUGS/3515805> (confusing semantics of 
 ns). MH, SR
 \& LB: There was a discussion in January about whether 
 ns means the
 input namespace or the target output namespace for the thing being created/described.
 The 
 mode attribute indicates whether or not you’re intending to change this
 or just import it. On looking at the specific example concerned, it turns out there
 is
 no situation in which you need 
 ns to specify the input; instead, you can do
 this by specifying a namespace prefix on the 
 ident. *Action on SR: Test Roma to see what it does with a namespace prefix on 
 ident;
 clarify the examples in Chapter 23; create an attribute class to hold 
 ns
 (instead of defining it separately on 
 elementSpec and friends).*

- <http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3548625>
 (Extend the enumerated values for 
 list/
 type). KH, GB \& PS: The
 values given for 
 list/
 type are a strange mix of presentational and
 semantic. However, making a change to this would be massively disruptive to existing
 documents, so a change is not recommended, but the Guidelines should be expanded to
 show more examples. Ideas for completely redesigning list should be added to the P6
 Dev page. To answer the ticket itself, we should add examples which use
 
 rend or the putative 
 style. *Action on PS: expand
 the Guidelines with more examples of the use of 
 list/
 type,
 including some which use the putative 
 style attribute; add a section to the
 P6 Development page to initiate discussion of future values.*






 12:30 \- 13:30: Lunch
 

 13:30 \- 17\.30 
 
 
 Experimental modules, lists of customizations, etc.
 
 This arises out of a discussion in early September on the tei\-council list.



- SR should explain the purpose of providing downloadable customizations.

- On [http://www.tei\-c.org/Guidelines/Customization/](/Guidelines/Customization/) and [http://www.tei\-c.org/Guidelines/Customization/odds.xml](/Guidelines/Customization/odds.xml), are any modules
 labeled as experimental that should not be, or any modules not labeled but should
 be?
 (Note that currently the dictionaries module is documented differently on these two
 pages.) SR said that none are experimental any more.





 Roma interface, supported customizations and documentation
 
 
- Do we agree with SR removing MS, dict, speech, drama, and corpus from the
 Create Customization from template drop\-down menu at [http://www.tei\-c.org/Roma/](/Roma/)? SR noted that
 Bare, Lite, and Tite make sense since they are coherent and have a purpose, and
 that SVG, MathML, XInclude, ITS, and ODD are also sensible since they involve
 non\-obvious techniques which you can't recreate easily in Roma. But the
 remaining five are are not meaningfully useful or documented, nor do they follow any
 known
 recommendation. JC said they were supplied here as simple example customisations.
 MH suggested separating out such options as "advanced".

- Should we provide templates for community\-created customisations in Roma that
 are reasonably mature and well\-supported, such as EpiDoc? What would be our
 management process for this?

- Should we begin generating HTML and PDF documentation for any modules besides
 Lite and Tite (and putting them in [http://www.tei\-c.org/release/doc/tei\-p5\-exemplars/](/release/doc/tei-p5-exemplars/))?

- For the two sections of customizations at [http://www.tei\-c.org/Guidelines/Customization/](/Guidelines/Customization/): 
 
 
	
	- Do we want to rename the first heading Customizations provided by the TEI
	 Consortium to Customizations maintained by the TEI Consortium or 
	 Customizations supported by the TEI Consortium?
	
	- Can we clarify what more restricted or experimental means? These are not
	 the same thing, and it isn't clear what either means.
	
	- Do we want to set up a procedure for deciding what can be added to the TEI
	 Community Customizations or for periodically revisiting those listed there? Even
	 if not, should we just go ahead and remove MEP from the list since the links are
	 broken and it's a P3 thing?
	
	- Do we find the heading TEI Community Customizations clear enough, or do we
	 want to add a paragraph here explaining it?





 Review of the changes to the Roma front page
 
 The Council
 drafted and redrafted the wording of the options on the first page of Roma. Changes
 were
 made in an effort to clarify the differences between working on a basic template and
 working on an existing 
 complete customization such as Lite. It was also decided that
 the link to community customizations on the Roma front page should actually point
 to the
 Guidelines/Customizations page on the TEI website, rather than to the community
 customizations on the wiki page, which has some obsolete customizations, and is not
 informative enough to be useful. *Action on KH: Improve TEI\-C Website
 page on customizations.*




 Ticket Processing
 
 
 
- <http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3519866>
 (
 rend from 
 data.word to text). 
 LB apologises profoundly for the typo on his ticket
 comment. The three options under consideration are:
	* Status Quo: 
	 rend stays the same (multiple non\-sequential, space\-separated tokens similar to html’s
	 
	 class attribute), clarified in Guidelines.
	* Allow space in 
	 rend (as per ticket request) and clarify Guidelines.
	* Space is only for multiple non\-sequential tokens in 
	 rend but create new 
	 style
	 attribute with a documented Formally Defined Language for it (and create 
	 styleDesc
	 element or similar solution for documenting the style language used).
 JC argued for \#1,
 but in the end Council voted in favour of \#3\. Council then discussed at length the
 extra
 suggestion by LB that 
 rendition and 
 rendition be renamed to 
 styleDesc
 and 
 styleRef, to minimize confusion. Council voted 5 to 4, with one abstention, in
 favour of this. Since this was indecisive, and would have such backwards compatibility
 issues, this question should be spun off into a separate ticket and discussed over
 the
 next few months. *Action on LB: implement the 
 style attribute per <http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3519866>.*
	
	- style will be created as string (
	 data.text) in 
	 att.global.
	
	- It will be defined as containing a formal style language.
	
	- All three attributes (
	 rend, 
	 rendition, 
	 style) can be used in
	 combination.
	
	- A new element, which will be declarable, to specify the style language will also
	 be created after discussion on council list.
	
	- scheme on 
	 rendition should be moved into its own class, so that the new
	 element can have it.
	
	- *Action on JC: 
	 rend references throughout Guidelines will be
	 clarified to note it is a sequence\-indeterminate bag of space\-separated tokens.*

- <http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3521288>
 (Dead Link for [http://www.ons.gov.uk/about\-statistics/classif](http://www.ons.gov.uk/about-statistics/classif)). The original ticket morphed into a discussion of the use of 
 scheme and 
 code;
 since the latter normally points to a subsection of the former, there is no need for
 both. *Action on MH: The original issue of the broken link in <http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3521288> must be fixed.*
 (assigned to MH). *Action on JC and LB: The 
 scheme attribute should be redefined so that it need
 not point to a 
 taxonomy element; it can point to an external scheme. Similarly,
 
 code should be defined as a pointer to some kind of external category or to a
 
 category element. A new ticket should be raised for this.* SR: The use of these attributes duplicates the purpose of
 
 key and 
 ref. This problem exists elsewhere (e.g. 
 socEcStatus), so someone
 needs to look at the issue more generally. *Action on JC: While working on 
 
 person, 
 name etc. in another ticket, examine the parallelism between 
 scheme, 
 code, 
 key and 
 ref.*

- <http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3522043>
 (Version numbers link to page about versions?) KH: The page we could link to at that
 point tells you about versions, but does not explain the numbering of versions; that
 information (including a link back to the Guidelines \-\- the P5 page mentioned in KH’s
 last comment) should be included on the page to be linked to. *Action on MH: Implement linking of the "Version 2\.1\.0" at the
 bottom of each HTML page to something, possibly to
 http://www.tei\-c.org/Guidelines/P5/\#previous, or better, to something which explains
 what version numbers mean and then links on to the above location.*

- <http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3416130>
 (Allow certainty etc. inside milestoneLike elements). GB and LB have stated their
 positions on the ticket, and GB has previously reported to the Council list on this.
 The
 main objection is that hitherto empty elements would now have content. LB: A compromise
 would be the introduction of a new class 
 model.metaMark, along with revision of the
 content models for the proposed elements from `(EMPTY)` to `(model.metaMark*)`. SR: this
 fails because 
 certainty has 
 model.glossLike in its content model, so being able
 to put 
 certainty in 
 gap will bring the possibility of textual content
 in a 
 desc. This makes many people uneasy because existing processors may
 suddenly start displaying text from the 
 desc where nothing was displayed
 before. Following an inconclusive vote, this ticket was deferred pending further
 discussion on council list. *Action on ALL Council: Discuss <http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3416130> further.*

- <http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3064757> (XML construct encoding within Schematron).
 Council voted to reject the ticket, but undertake to look at consistency of encoding
 in
 the existing Schematron rules. *Action on SR: reject and close <http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3064757>, but examine consistency of encoding in all current Schematron rules.*

- <http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3475007> (New section on encoding text directionality)
 *Action on MH: consult such people as D. Anderson, F. Sasaki and M. Bingenheimer, along
 with the TEI\-L list, to put together a group to create a recommendation for a new
 
 Guidelines section on encoding text directionality.*

- <http://purl.org/TEI/Bug/3480650> (
 cRef is a mess).LB and SR: Suggestion on ticket
 accepted. 
 cRef will be moved into a class, and given the datatype 
 data.text (it must be
 so since canonical references can contain spaces). The bulk of the discussion on the
 ticket is
 tangential. The last part of the original suggestion is not right, though; 
 data.pointer
 is wrong for 
 cRef because of the spaces. *Action on LB: move 
 cRef into a class, and give it the datatype 
 data.text per <http://purl.org/TEI/Bug/3480650>.*

- <http://purl.org/TEI/Bug/3413346> (Deprecation of 
 data.key and 
 data.word
 attributes). GB \& JC: The main conclusion was that most of the ticket needs more
 discussion, so the ticket should remain open. Some of the proposals in the ticket
 (e.g.
 that a handful of attributes such as 
 lemma etc. would be better served by a pointer of
 some kind) are wrong, however. Reassigned back to MH, who proposed it, to close this
 ticket and open a cleaner one on the topic of deprecation of data.key. *Action on MH: close <http://purl.org/TEI/Bug/3413346> and open a cleaner ticket on the topic of deprecation of 
 data.key.*

- <http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3547558> (\*Spec elements could have 
 keywords or
 use 
 ana). BB \& MH: We suggest that you could just create 
 classSpecs for this
 purpose, instead of using another mechanism.The 
 classSpec might have only this purpose.
 This would require the additionof an extra value for 
 classSpec/
 type, something like
 
 adhoc, since such a class would be neither an attribute class nor a model class, but
 other than that, nothing disruptive would result, and a full description of what is
 meant by the categorization could be supplied in the 
 classSpec. If at some point you
 wanted to do something with the class, you could make use of it in your 
 schemaSpec, and
 change its 
 type from 
 adhoc to something else. LB feels this proposal is too vague to be
 useful because of the absence of use\-cases. *Action on JC: add more use\-cases to <http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3547558>.*

- <http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3561938> (New tag element for grouping elements). PS
 \& RW: As described, the ticket is very broad, and would require a meta\-element of
 which all the existing elements would be children. As stated, it’s far too large and
 vague; the use\-cases are all met by existing mechanisms; and the stated reasons such
 as
 improved processing speed are red herrings. Ticket to be rejected and closed. Assigned
 to MH. *Action on MH: Reject and close <http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3561938> with an explanation.*

- <http://purl.org/TEI/BUGS/3523082> (XPointer schemes may not nest, but see ch.
 16\). *Action on GB: incorporate <http://purl.org/TEI/BUGS/3523082> into the SOM group discussion of TEI Pointers.*

- Final discussion on release date and plan: PB will be the release technician.
 Release day will be determined by PB’s schedule, and all source changes must be
 submitted three days before release day. Following that, all Council members must
 proof
 and check for errors and inconsistencies. *Action on JC: Organize Council
 work for next release.*

- Council discussed the scheduling of meetings, specifically whether we should
 piggy\-back on e.g. the DH conference instead of having separate meetings. The consensus
 was that there currently is no significant advantage to trying to do this, since there
 is no conference where more than a few members are likely to go.

- JC thanked all Council members for their time and commitment and reminded them to
 attend to tickets and actions assigned to them.







