---
title: "TEI Council Meeting"
creator: James Cummings
date: 2007-07-17
---
# TEI Council Meeting






The TEI Council teleconference meeting took place on Friday 17 July
 at 12:00 UTC.


Participants: Syd Bauman (SB), David Birnbaum (DB), Lou Burnard
 (LB), Arianna Ciula (AC), James Cummings (Minutes;JC), Matthew
 Driscoll (MD), Dan O'Donnel (DO), Dot Porter (DP), Laurent
 Romary (LR), Conal Tuohy (CT), John Walsh (JW), and
 Christian Wittern (Chair;CW).


Council members unable to participate: Tone Merete Bruvik (TMB),
 Sebastian Rahtz (SR)





Open action items
 
 
 CW reviewed the action items from the previous minutes. 


LB Confirm trac \#332 (witList/witDetail) is properly
 resolved.* LB confirmed this had been completed.
LB Confirm trac \#332 (witList/witDetail) is properly resolved.
 2007\-07\-13 * LB confirmed this had been completed.
DO Circulate Board decision with regard to title page and exact
 wording to Council. 2007\-06\-22 * DO confirmed this had been completed.
Eds Implement Board decision with regard to title page. 2007\-07\-13 * Eds now ready to do this. 
 Eds Implement Board decision with regard to title
 page. 
 2007\-07\-20
CW Draft list of workgroups and their members for
 editors. 2007\-08\-01 * CW hadn't done this yet but it would be done for its due
 date. 
 CW Draft list of workgroups and their members for
 editors. 
 2007\-08\-01
LB Confirm the gap in transcribed speech example and
 surrounding text has been clarified. 2007\-07\-13 * LB confirmed this had been completed.
SB Regularize glosses on \*specs passim.2007\-07\-13 * SB confirmed this had been completed.
Eds Review current wording in light of Council's recommendation.
 2007\-07\-13 * Both Eds confirmed this had been completed.
DB Propose a revision of egXML desc and send it to
 LB. 2007\-07\-13 * DB confirmed this had been completed. LB confirmed it
 had been included into the Guidelines
LB Ensure errors reported by JW in VE have been
 corrected. 2007\-07\-13 * LB confirmed this had been completed.
LB Add discussion of PIs to CO.8\.2\.2\. 2007\-07\-13 * LB confirmed this had been completed.
SB Change q to quote in MS.2007\-07\-13 * SB confirmed this had been done.
SB Finish 3066 to 4646 update.2007\-07\-27 * SB confirmed this had been done.
SB create second said proposal for q and said, post
 both. 2007\-07\-13 * SB confirmed this had been done.
SB move postscript to a free standing ODD. 2007\-07\-13 * SB had not yet done this. 
 SB move postscript to a free standing ODD.
 
 2007\-08\-01
 Discussion ensued about
 whether the content model of \<div\> needed revision. LB
 believed any such work should at most be reconsidered for P5
 1\.0, SB felt will post a reminder concerning the current
 \<div\> problems to council list. 
 SB Post reminder of the current \<div\>
 problems to council list. 
 2007\-07\-20
SB remove wording of description of resp in prose PH.1\.2 \&
 PH.1\.3\. 2007\-07\-13 * SB confirmed this had been completed.
MD/DB Stemma modeling using graph elements. 2007\-07\-13 * Discussion of this was postponed for later in the agenda.
JW Rewrite rendition recommendations and evaluate
 whether possible for P5 1\.0\. 2007\-08\-01 * JW confirmed that he is on target to meet the due date
 for this action. 
 JW
 Rewrite rendition recommendations and evaluate whether
 possible for P5 1\.0 
 2007\-08\-01
LB Prepare the ground for changes to
 rendition/@rend/@rendRef in P5 1\.1 if JW's recommendations
 cannot be included in P5 1\.0\. 2007\-08\-01 * LB confirmed that he is on target to meet the due date for this
 action. 
 LB Prepare the ground for changes to
 rendition/@rend/@rendRef in P5 1\.1 if JW's recommendations are
 unable to be included in P5 1\.0 
 2007\-08\-01
ALL Review work on facsimile markup
 http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/291, especially
 Comenius example, report to Council list. 2007\-06\-29 * Some discussion of this took place and will be continued
 on the council list, with a final draft being hammered out by
 LB, CT, and DP.
 
 LB, CT, DP (and ALL) Discuss work on facsimile markup
 on council list.
 2007\-07\-24

LB, CT, DP Hammer out final P5 1\.0 draft of facsimile
 markup. 
 2007\-08\-01
SB, DP, MD Discuss merging of Corpus chapter in DS, and
 if necessary come up with concrete proposals for
 implementation (or not). 2007\-06\-29 * SB had not yet done this. LB argued that this may not be
 necessary at all. It was suggested that one possibility is a
 change from \<teiCorpus\> to \<teiGroup\>. It was
 decided that this should be discussed on the council list once
 more. If a concrete proposal has not been received by
 2007\-07\-20, then it will have to wait until P5 1\.1\. 
 SB Make concrete proposal with
 regard to merging of Corpus chapter into DS or
 teiCorpus/teiGroup. 
 2007\-07\-20
LB Implement any recommendations concerning the merging
 of Corpus into DS. 2007\-07\-13 * LB noted that no concrete recommendations had been
 made. 
 LB Implement any
 council\-approved recommendations concerning the merging of
 Corpus into DS.
 2007\-08\-01
LB Revise ST to be more ODD focused and move any schema
 specific material to chapter on ODD specification. 2007\-07\-13
 * LB confirmed that this had been completed. He also
 mentioned that lots of the schema\-specific discussion had been
 moved to the IM chapter.
TMB Provide concrete proposals to Council list on necessary
 reorganisation/reworking of NH. 2007\-07\-01 * TMB was not present which hampered discussion. SB
 discussed the moving of prev/next/part attributes from SA and
 CO to NH. Most of council appeared to disagree with the moving
 of these attributes. LB commented that the chapter as a
 minimum needs a rewrite to highlight TEI ways of dealing with
 overlap. Moving of attributes was shelved for P5 1\.1\. 
 DB, TMB, SB, LB Review prose of
 NH and discuss on council list from 1 August, providing
 rewritten chapter by mid August. 
 2007\-08\-15
LR Complete final revision of Dictionary chapter and
 submit to Editors in two weeks. 2007\-06\-29 * LR summarised all the work done and LB confirmed that he
 had also seen it. Discussion continued concerning the 3 views
 section at the end of the chapter. It was unclear whether to
 keep unchanged, revise, or discard this entirely for P5 1\.1
 
 LR Provide any further
 changes to Dictionary chapter in light of discussion and submit to
 Eds.
 2007\-08\-1
Eds to integrate final Dictionary revisions into Guidelines.
 2007\-07\-13 * The Eds noted this was pending the above item. 
 Eds Editors to integrate final
 Dictionary revisions into Guidelines.
 2007\-08\-15
LB Post person/places draft, and announce its existence to TEI\-L
 directing community to comment on that mailing list asap.2007\-06\-18 * LB confirmed that he had indeed done this, but that
 reaction from the community was somewhat
 underwhelming. 
 LB To
 continue to encourage community feedback until
 
 2007\-07\-27
LB Revise person/places draft with regard to TEI
 Community comment, announce final draft version on mailing
 list.2007\-08\-01 * LB Revise person/places draft with regard to TEI
 Community comment, announce final draft version on mailing list.
 
 2007\-08\-01
LB Merge FSD and Feature Structures into a single
 module with other necessary revisions.2007\-08\-01 * LB reported that although not due yet, he had started
 this. He warned that it might be difficult to keep the
 recommendations of TEI and ISO in sync given the date of ISO
 meetings. 
 LB Report back
 to council on any changes to FSD/FS and if necessary
 rationalise the TEI version. 
 2007\-08\-15
LB Revise add/del/supplied issues (cf trac 301,
 331\)* LB confirmed this had not yet been done. 
 LB Revise add/del/supplied
 issues (e.g.trac 301, 331\) 
 2007\-08\-01




 
 Reports
 
 
 
 
Layout of the Guidelines (JC/DP) JC reported briefly
 on the status of the work on the layout of the Guidelines. He and DP
 had solicited contributions of formatting suggestions and created a
 wiki page listing some initial suggestions. SR had solved a number of
 the problems which were bugs or highly structural such as the toggling
 of RNG/RNC schemas. JC had posted a message to the council list
 summarising the work and timetable. 
 JC,
 DP Report back to council on progress of formatting of the
 Guidelines so far and any outstanding issues 
 2007\-08\-03

JC, DP All issues should be resolved and/or reported to
 Sebastian and/or Council 
 2007\-09\-07





discussion of appInfo As SR was not present, JC
 reported that the \<appInfo\> proposal seemed to answer all the
 concerns expressed in the discussion on TEI\-L. Although it is more
 fixed than the original discussions agreed from Berlin, Council agreed
 to support it.



Content model of \<rdg\> DO argued that things
 larger than phrases are used for textual variants. LB believes that
 there are already available solutions for situations where variants
 are not easily nestable or not phrase\-level. DO suggests that
 \<app\> should be a member of listLike. LB does not
 disagree. 
 DO Report back to
 Council with proposal for any changes to app/rdg
 
 2007\-07\-20





said proposal SB summarised the proposal, and most
 of Council agreed. SB was worried about the name of the proposed aloud
 attribute. Other suggestions were made, notably "explicit". SB to
 finalised it and add it to the Guidelines, consulting council by
 mailing list. 
 SB SB to finalise
 new 
 said element and add to guidelines.
 
 2007\-08\-01





Stemma Model DB reported on the proposal for ways of
 modelling textual stemmata, both within the existing TEI framework,
 and possible better ways to do it. Council should review this material
 and make any comments on the list by Friday. 
 ALL Provide comments on DB's proposals for modelling
 stemmata. 
 2007\-07\-20






 
 Next Meeting
 
 
 The next teleconference was scheduled for Thursday 2 August 2007,
 12pm noon UTC. This will be:
  06:00 MDT in Calgary,
  07:00
 CDT in Chicago,
  08:00 EDT in New York,
  13:00 BST in
 London,
  14:00 CEST in Paris,
  21:00 JST in Kyoto, and
 
 Wed 18 July, 00:00 NZST in Wellington.
  This is shortly after the
 major 2007\-08\-01 deadline for most technical revisions to be
 complete. Council members should ensure that they have posted reports
 concerning all action items pertaining to them by this date.


Failing a better solution, we will revert to using Indiana's
 teleconferencing system, since much of today's meeting was inaudible
 to nmany participants, for the second time.





