---
layout: page.njk
title: "TEI Council - progress notes for June 2007"
---
# TEI Council - progress notes for June 2007
TODO




| n | Importance | Ease | Resp |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 0 | high | high | LB | change name of msDescription to msDesc and mention its existence in HD |
| 1 | high | high | SB | TRAC . Merge att.datable and att.dateTime, using new name for value/dateValue |
| 2 | high | low | DO | proposal for dropping witDetail. TRAC . Change witList to witGroup, allow it to self\-nest, and drop included. Work out what Gautier Poupeau really wants. |
| 3 | high | low | DO | Raise issue of editors' names on title page at Board |
| 4 | high | low | LB, MD, DO, TMB, SB | TRAC . Solve the substitution et al. issue |
| 5 | high | medium | LB | TRAC . Work on AB |
| 6 | high | medium | LB | improve wording discussing use of del in an example transcription |
| 7 | medium | high | DP | find out ISBD recommendations, and suggest re\-wording of paragraph in HD |
| 8 | medium | high | SB | TRAC. Regularizeglosses on \*specs passim |
| 9 | medium | low | SB | createmodel.headLike |
| 10 | low | high | DP | send rest of errors to Council list |
| 11 | low | high | DP | Recommend keeping machine\-readable transcription or not |
| 12 | low | high | Eds | fix wording in description of egXML |
| 13 | low | high | JW | post errors noticed in VE |
| 14 | low | high | LB | Add discussion of PIs to CO.8\.2\.2 |
| 15 | low | high | SB | Change q to quote in MS |
| 16 | low | high | SB | Finish 3066 to 4646 update |
| 17 | low | high | SB | create 2nd said proposal for q and said, post both |
| 18 | low | high | SB | move postscript to a free standing ODD |
| 19 | low | high | eds. | remove wording of description of resp in prose PH.1\.2 \& PH.1\.3 |
| 20 | low | low | DB, MD | TRAC . Stemma modeling using graph elements |
| 21 | low | low | JW | TRAC . Write up his thoughts \& today's council discussion on rendition |
| 22 | low | medium | JW | TRAC . Draft paras on metadata standards 2007\-05\-05; put JW paras in appropriate place at end of HD 2007\-05\-12 |
| 23 | low | medium | SB | Discuss calendar in the prose. Point out no regularization of other calendars in the prose. Explain W3C vs ISO date attrs in prose |


 

To discuss


* (LB) TRAC . Merge corpus chapter into DS.
* (LR)
report back on ISO meeting re FSD



 

Need clarification


* (DB) TRAC  [Re\-think ST and its position in the Guidelines](http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/341) soon
* (TMB) re\-work NH



 

Other TRAC tickets not listed above




| Trac | summary | owner | component |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| TRAC [291](http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/291) | text and image encoding | conal | FT\_Tables\_\_Formulae\_\_and\_Graphics |
| TRAC [301](http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/301) | element for indicating supplied matter within expansions | lou | CO\_Elements\_Available\_in\_All\_TEI\_Documents |
| TRAC [303](http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/303) | fix content model of div | syd | DS\_Default\_Text\_Structure |
| TRAC [304](http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/304) | solve q vs quote issue | syd | CO\_Elements\_Available\_in\_All\_TEI\_Documents |
| TRAC [307](http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/307) | place handling | matthew | ND\_Names\_and\_Dates |
| TRAC [314](http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/314) | Provide simpler way of describing witnesses for charter encoding | lou | TC\_Critical\_Apparatus |
| TRAC [315](http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/315) | header element to hold application information | rahtz | HD\_The\_TEI\_Header |
| TRAC [316](http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/316) | TEI\_ODD exemplar needs pumping up | rahtz | MD\_Modifying\_and\_Customizing\_the\_TEI\_DTD |
| TRAC [319](http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/319) | postscript | syd | DS\_Default\_Text\_Structure |
| TRAC [327](http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/327) | trim down Gentle Introduction to show RELAXNG only | lou | SG\_Gentle\_intro |
| TRAC [331](http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/331) | sort out add/del/supplied etc elements | lou | CO\_Elements\_Available\_in\_All\_TEI\_Documents |
| TRAC [332](http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/332) | create witGroup instead of witList | lou | TC\_Critical\_Apparatus |
| TRAC [333](http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/333) | merge Corpus chapter into TS | lou | CC\_Language\_Corpora |
| TRAC [341](http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/341) | rethink position of ST in Guidelines | david | ST\_Infrastructure |
| TRAC [342](http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/342) | work out how to drop witDetail | daniel | MS\_The\_Manuscript\_Description\_Element |
| TRAC [343](http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/343) | revise NH\_ considering a new module for @prev and @next | tone | NH\_Multiple\_Hierarchies |
| TRAC [344](http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/344) | discuss calendaring more | syd | ND\_Names\_and\_Dates |
| TRAC [345](http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/345) | New section on ODD implementation | rahtz | TD\_Documentation\_Elements |
| TRAC [346](http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/346) | Integrate material on places into ND | lou | ND\_Names\_and\_Dates |
| TRAC [347](http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/347) | Revise section on orgstuff for consistency | lou | ND\_Names\_and\_Dates |



 

Done


* (LB) fix VE.2 errors JW reported
* (Eds)add a mimeType attribute to rendition
* (LB) Come up with a new name for value/dateValue
* (LB) TRAC . Trim down SG to RNC only
* (LB) move CH to front after SG done
* (Eds) TRAC . Merge lists in HD.3\.3
* (Eds.) update examples like scheme that use URIs to use example.edu
* (SB) add ident to atts of specDesc for language in HD.4\.2\.
* (LB) fix MD\-reported typos
* (SB) Remove entity reference from example in TS.7\.2\.
* (LR) TRAC . Present DI revision progress to Council list 2007\-07\-31
* (eds)Change name of DI to Dictionaries
* (LB) TRAC . Generalize dimensions to measureGrp
* (LB) Implement change to discussion of institutiondone
* (LB) fix minor errors DP found in SA done
* (LB) fix reference to extendedTargdone
* (eds.) improve handShift, including dropping old
* (SB) reverse TC and PH
* (LB) Add a note added in TC.1\.2 to explain 1st Beowulf example better done
* (LB) fix reference to DTD in CC done
* (SR) go through mode table near end of TD done 2007/05/05
* (SB) TRAC . Re\-arrange USE and rewrite introduction to match
* (Eds.)
TRAC . Revise
section of CF and submit to Council list
* (MD)
TRAC .
Report on place\-name meeting
* (SR\_ . Rework Tite and deal with new elements one way or another. DO to Report on Tite revamp progress



 