---
layout: page.njk
title: "TEI Technical Council Teleconference, 2020-04-14"
---
# TEI Technical Council Teleconference, 2020-04-14
**Meeting time:**


* EST 09:00–10:30, GMT 14:00–15:30, CEST 15:00–16:30
* Started: 14:05Z; ended: 15:37Z


**Present:**
* Syd Bauman (SB)
* Elisa Beshero\-Bondar (EB)
* Meaghan Brown (MB)
* Hugh Cayless (HC)
* Nicholas Cole (NC)
* Jessica Lu (JL)
* Martina Scholger (MS, Chair)
* Peter Stadler (PS, until 16:00\)
* Magdalena Turska (MT)
* Raff Viglianti (RV)


**Apologies/Not Present:**
* Vanessa Bigot\-Juloux (VBJ)


 
Planning of the virtual ‘F2F’ (VF2F) meeting
--------------------------------------------


* 1–3 May
* Options for organizing the meeting
	1. PS, MT, NC, VB, MS start in the (CEST) morning with e.g. break out groups); Plenary session with full Council in the (CEST) afternoon; JL, SB, HC, RV, EB, MB continue in the (CEST) evening.
	2. Start in the CEST afternoon / EDT morning.
	3. Time to implement tickets with “Status: go”.
* Which conference system do we want to use? Suggestion to use Zoom.
* Decision for organizing the VF2F:
	+ Use Zoom with password
	+ See [agenda](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1tIA1pWABSJlL9KfCwK6t6zwVXm762LNAbvs45YU5Pww/edit#) for detailed table of meeting times
	+ Friday: full council group session (\~4hrs) (EDT 09:00, GMT 14:00, CEST 15:00\)
	+ Saturday: European break\-outs (\~3hrs) (BST 9:00, CEST 10:00 \+ full council session (\~4hrs) (EDT 09:00, BST 14:00, CEST 15:00\) \+ American break\-outs (\~3hrs) (EDT 15:00\)
	+ Sunday: full council group session (\~4hrs) (EDT 09:00, GMT 14:00, CEST 15:00\)


Action on ...
-------------


* The TEI\-C Board is searching for an issue\-tracking system
	+ <https://kanboard.org/>
* Do we want/need this as well?
	+ Suggestion to try comments/task assignments in Google
	+ “Action on” document is useful too.
	+ Our minutes are converted to HTML for Wordpress. Maybe use \<span class\=”action”\>....\</span\> to make these easier to manage/feature/collect into a task list.


Documentation
-------------


* <https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1978>
* Where should the documentation live?
	+ Using the GitHub repos, write in TEI.
	+ Some is in Documentation repo, some is in TEI repo.
	+ Perhaps we can create new directories in Documentation repo for Tutorials, etc.
	+ Move old stuff from TEI GitHub Documentation directory into the Documentation repo.
	+ TEI website documentation on customization ([https://tei\-c.org/guidelines/customization/](https://tei-c.org/guidelines/customization/))? Does it belong here? (general consensus \= no, if anywhere, it belongs on TEI\-Wiki)
* How do we want to format it? TEI? Markdown? Wiki?
	+ Should they all be in TEI? (Our minutes were in TEI from at least 1990 to \~2013\)
	+ NC: we could use a better collaborative editor (in an intermediate format) for TEI documentation. What intermediate formats will work, (how do we translate into / out?). NC would like to work on this with anyone interested. HC is interested. **Action on NC:** prepare a show\-and\-tell for the VF2F of what he's been investigating. "Hurdles for multi\-user collaboration in the TEI"
* Where and how do we want to publish it?
	+ We could post documentation in GitHub and make sure TEI website links to it, or publishes it from GitHub (via CETEIcean, etc.)
	+ Have one spot to edit the Documentation and publish them in multiple places.
* What is the place of the [TEI\-wiki](https://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php?title=Main_Page)?
	+ SB: for content that is community\-written, not by Council.
	+ Do the SIGs use it? Used to be the SIGs were given a section of the wiki to edit. Some SIGs use the wiki. Should still be just an option for them.
	+ Some of it is working documents trying to figure out complex processes.
	+ TEI\-Wiki issue with logins: How are these managed? How do people create new accounts? **Action on the Infrastructure Group:** Ask Luis about this; ensure there is some account management on TEI\-Wiki (i.e., that a user can request an account).
	+ Infrastructure Group will be seeking new website manager / communications officer. Clarifying roles would be helpful.
	+ HC: Council should add pointers to where current Council documentation is.
	+ JL: TEI\-Wiki has value as a community\-authored space. If it's actually used it might increase a sense of community instead of current TEI website's top\-down information dispensing. RV: TEI listserv and GitHub might be where our community connections are happening. What would we do with a revamped wiki? (TEI\-by\-example)
	+ Discussion of GitHub Wiki option vs. original TEI Wiki presents issue for us with having to migrate material, etc.
* What other documents should we pull in?
* [Current list of available documentation](#documentation) near bottom of these minutes, just above the ticket\-triage assignment table.


TEI 2020 Conference Submissions
-------------------------------


* JL notes conference site indicates CFP deadline is tomorrow: [https://tei2020\.unl.edu/call\-for\-proposals/](https://tei2020.unl.edu/call-for-proposals/)
* **Action on MS** to get in touch with conference organizers and TEI\-C Board ([textencoding2020@gmail.com](mailto:textencoding2020@gmail.com), James Cummings, Kay Walters) and find out what's going on.


Report Working Group meeting I18n
---------------------------------


* suggestion to consolidate l18n messages into a document for Council.


Issues
------


* Stand\-off, annotations, and the Web Annotation Model: we need to work out the content model of \<annotation\>.
* uniHan: <https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1805>


Reminders
---------


* TCW\-22 Release Process notes should be revised to urge Council members to report major changes (such as things that would break ODDs) to Council when we go to refrigeration! **Action on EB and JL** to work on this documentation **by 2020\-04\-27**.
* Policy for inactive members to accompany change to 3\-year terms? **Action on EB, SB, JL** to have a proposal by F2F


### Documentation Currently Available


#### Documentation on GitHub (TEI): <http://teic.github.io/TCW/>:


* [TCW 20: How to Edit the TEI Guidelines](http://teic.github.io/TCW/tcw20.html)
* [Testing and Building the Guidelines and Stylesheets](http://teic.github.io/TCW/testing_and_building.html)
* [TCW 22: Building TEI Release](http://teic.github.io/TCW/tcw22.html)
* [TCW 24: Style Guide for Editing the TEI Guidelines](http://teic.github.io/TCW/tcw24.html)
* [TCW 27: Procedure for handling practices that are no longer recommended or deprecated](http://teic.github.io/TCW/tcw27.html)
* [TCW 29: The Roma install on tei\-c.org](http://teic.github.io/TCW/tcw29.html)
* [Draft tutorial on ODD chaining](http://teic.github.io/TCW/howtoChain.html)
* [Draft tutorial on ODD purification](http://teic.github.io/TCW/purifyDoc.html)
* [Draft tutorial on ODD generation](http://teic.github.io/TCW/howtoGenerate.html)
* [Draft Pure ODD Tutorial](http://teic.github.io/TCW/pureODDtutorial.html)


#### Documentation in the TEI\-Wiki (mediaWiki): [https://wiki.tei\-c.org/](https://wiki.tei-c.org/)


* [https://wiki.tei\-c.org/index.php?title\=TEI\-Council\-FAQ](https://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php?title=TEI-Council-FAQ)
* Council minutes to 2015: [https://wiki.tei\-c.org/index.php?title\=Council](https://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php?title=Council) : NONE of the minutes links works. A list of redirects exists in an unusable form for the current TEI website's nginx format. HC is working on it.
* [https://wiki.tei\-c.org/index.php/ODD\_chaining](https://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/ODD_chaining)
* [https://wiki.tei\-c.org/index.php?title\=Mapping\_ODD\_processing](https://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php?title=Mapping_ODD_processing)


#### Documentation on the Website (HTML):


* [https://tei\-c.org/guidelines/customization/](https://tei-c.org/guidelines/customization/)  \*outdated: Move to a new\-and\-improved TEI\-Wiki?


