---
title: "TEI Technical Council Teleconference, 2023-04-14"
date: 2023-04-14
---
# TEI Technical Council Teleconference, 2023-04-14
### **Meeting times**


* 6:30am PST / 9:30am EST / 2:30pm UTC / 3:30pm CET
* Started: 13:32Z Ended: 15:02Z


### **Present:**


* Syd Bauman (SB)
* Helena Bermúdez Sabel (HBS)
* Elisa Beshero\-Bondar (EBB, Chair)
* Hugh Cayless (HC)
* Patricia O'Connor (TOC)
* Martina Scholger (MS)
* Sabine Seifert (SS)
* Joey Takeda (JT)
* Magdalena Turska (MT)
* Raff Viglianti (RV) (13:39Z)


### **Apologies/Not Present:**


* Elli Bleeker (EB)
* Janelle Jenstad (JJ)


Meeting minutes previous month ([March 2023](https://tei-c.org/activities/council/meetings/tei-technical-council-teleconference-2023-03-10/))
**Spring F2F meeting**
----------------------


* No April Stylesheets (we’ll do this at F2F), and no May TEIC teleconference
* Sun. May 7 – Tue. May 9 at University of Guelph: working at [THINCLab](https://www.uoguelph.ca/arts/dhguelph/thinc) [(McLaughlin Library)](https://goo.gl/maps/wyf6RJ7grWwdAncMA) (Sunday starting a bit later and Tuesday ending around noon)
* [LINCS project conference](https://lincsproject.ca/events/making-links-2023/) (before F2F)
	+ Panel with one or two Council members: Who is interested? LINCS will take place 5 minutes walk from THINC lab
	+ Recommend proposed panel time: **Sunday morning: 09:00 – 10:15 Action on EBB** to recommend this to Susan Brown by 2023\-04\-15 (done). 
		- Panelists: MT, HC (if arrives in time)
	+ How late can we stay at the LINCS lab each night? 
	(Answer from Susan Brown: We'll likely be in a different location on Sunday and can stay later, but on M and T, THINC lab follows library hours in interim session:: 9\-5pm.
	+ [DH@Guelph workshops](https://www.uoguelph.ca/arts/dhguelph/summer2023) (May 9–12\): adjusted workshop model
		- SB will be leaving our meeting on Tue 09 May an hour or two early to join his workshop already in progress.
		- Request to EBB: Arrange agenda so that a topic for which SB is not particularly relevant be covered late Tue morning. (E.g., i18n.)


**Fall F2F meeting**
--------------------


* TEI/MEC Conference is Mon 04 Sep to Fri 08 September at Paderborn (see [save the date notice](https://www.uni-paderborn.de/forschung/forschung-im-profil/digital-humanities/nachricht/save-the-date-joint-tei-and-mei-conference-2023)):
* Council meets Sun 03 (morning)–Tue 05 (midday) September
	+ **Action on EBB** to check in with Peter Stadler to find out where Council meets by 2023\-05\-12
* Workshops: Mon 04 Sep and Tue 05 Sep
	+ in  different part of town than the main conference


**TEI/MEC Conference planning**
-------------------------------


* RV is committee chair, puts together program committee
* [CFP](https://teimec2023.uni-paderborn.de/cfp.html) : submissions due date extended to Sunday April 30
	+ ATOP submitting a panel on ODD oddities
	+ Panel / workshop on approaches to collation?


**Ticket Triaging for F2F**
---------------------------


* EBB will likely be asking for assistance in near future


Proposed New Repository in TEIC GitHub Organisation
---------------------------------------------------


* Creation of a repository within the TEIC organisation to contain materials pertaining to the revision of ISO MAF (Morphosyntactic Annotation Framework) which is moving from its own XML serialisation to a customisation of TEI.
* Arguments in favor of Piotr Banksi organizing this repository
	+ It would establish a firm place for any future (and some past) TEI parts of ISO\-TEI projects,
	+ It would open them properly to the public  which helps in the standardisation effort,
	+ It should arguably also act in the other direction, and strengthen the position of TEI\-based formats among those chosen for linguistic annotation (that position is not extremely secure \-\- plain text formats like UD or even makeshift XML formats like TCF (of Weblicht fame or infamy) or several formats used in the Netherlands, or even pseudo\-XML such as .vrt used by Corpus Workbench \-\- they are all competitors,
	+ Piotr Banski can prepare corpus encoding exemplars for the Guidelines. Having the code that supports that exemplar handy in the next repository in the same organisation is pretty close to optimal, in terms of sustainability and maintenance of the standard and of the exemplar.
* Name proposals for this repository (Banski’s preferences with \*\*):
	+ TEIC/ISO \*\* (caveat: potentially confusing, given other ISO standards used by the TEI)
	+ TEIC/TC37SC4 or TEIC/ISOTC37 (for the specific standard)
	+ TEIC/ISOTC37 (due to the existence of another TEI serialisation from another subcommittee of TC37\) \*\* \- allows for more directories beyond MAF
	+ TEI/MAF or TEI/ISO\-MAF
* Council approves the idea of allowing the repo. As for the name, we lean pretty strongly towards ISOTC37, as the repo maintainers (that TC) may wish to include TEI\-based standards other than MAF in the same repo.
* Council would like to be sure the README.md file is clear about what TC37 and MAF *are,* and the relationship between them \& TEI
* **Action on HBS** to relay the above decisions to Piotr by 2023\-04\-28\. If he does not have authority to create repo himself he should send e\-mail to EBB.


**Reviving Infrastructure Group (IG)**
--------------------------------------


* This is named a “group” rather than a “subgroup” because it is a group of TEI\-C members, not a subset of Council members.
* Responsible for infrastructure behind TEI services
* Formed in 2019 as a reaction to the crash of the ADHO services, then services moved to Huma\-Num
* IG group could decide to work on making a better TEI website
* IG group could also make a plan for the TEI mailing lists
* TEI Council / Board Minutes
	+ Lou Burnard's project (see Foxglove blog, [start at March 20 post](https://foxglove.hypotheses.org/699)), he already started working on (publishing) TEI\-C “minutes”, but apparently started off with a set of our edited notes, not our minutes. (He was prompted to work with the Review folder but even that isn't consistent always with our published minutes on WP.)
* Arranging Infrastructure Group (IG) meeting
	+ Infrastructure Group to meet after F2F Guelph to work on the website and the TEI mailing lists
	+ Action on MS to organise Infrastructure Group meeting in May/June
	+ Action on EBB to enquire if Board Members would like to participate in the Infrastructure Group.
* SS, TOC, JT, and EBB are all interested in working with the Infrastructure Group
	+ Previously the TEI Infrastructure group was not involved in the website
	+ We will need to clarify the roles of people involved: would the website group be a subgroup?
	+ i18n is also important in infrastructure and should be part of planning a new website.
* HC potentially able to request paid time from work to dedicate a month of work towards the Infrastructure Group to get it started
* Discussion whether to keep current Wordpress or switch to different static site — Some support for using [StaticSearch](https://github.com/projectEndings/staticSearch).
* HC asserts that new logo should be there before starting work on new website (SB thinks the new logo need be there before we *finish* work on the new website.)
* MT: we should continue the dialogue about how the website will function, whom it serves, what sections we need but decide on the technological solutions when we have first draft of the logobook and design guide
* There is some interest from particular council members to volunteer to work on the new website (SS, TOC, MT)
* JT on Documentation subgroup: is it separate from Infrastructure Group? Answer: Yes, it's about Council working papers (TCW's).


**Documentation subgroup**
--------------------------


* JT (after updating TCW 22\) notes that these are all encoded differently, and asks: should there be a TCW schema, and where would it live? 
	+ HC: we should clean this up. And this should happen during the course of the TEI website rebuild.


**Another TEI ODD Processor (ATOP)**
------------------------------------


* Request that people pay attention to tickets with [atop label](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/labels/atop). While most are not actually blocking progress, resolution would speed things up.
	+ [\#2330](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/2330) — Green \+ Yellow after February Council discussion and [ticket update](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/2330#issuecomment-1426000839)
		- As noted on ticket, Council agrees that there should be a mechanism for an ODD writer to specify the query language binding for constraints, and that binding name will be accessible by an XPath. Thus the ATOP group can move forward.


 