---
title: "TEI Technical Council Minutes 2016-07"
date: 2016-07-29
---
# TEI Technical Council Minutes 2016-07




 
 Teleconference 2016\-07\-29 13:00 UTC
 
 Present


* Hugh Cayless (HC)
* Syd Bauman (SB)
* James Cummings (JC)
* Martina Scholger (MS)
* Elisa Beshero\-Bondar (EB)
* Stefan Majewski (SM)
* Elli Mylonas (EM)
* Raff Viglianti (RV)
* Lou Burnard (LB)


Apologies


* Peter Stadler (PS)
* Magdalena Turska (MT)




 
 Agenda and minutes
 
 * Putting TEI Simple to bed (LB)
* Waiting on stylesheets update
* Waiting on Council read\-through and corrections
* + **Action on everyone** to read and edit the document as needed by **2016\-08\-15**
		- [ODD](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/blob/d9f349185b6a7263990c3c6fccc93567eb675e8e/P5/Exemplars/tei_simple.odd "ODD")
		- [HTML](http://lb42.github.io/tei_simple.html "HTML"), [PDF](http://lb42.github.io/tei_simple.odd.pdf "PDF")


* Logistics for F2F (SM)
	+ Scheduling of other activities alongside F2F, who will have to join workshops and
	 when
		- Schedule: [https://www.conftool.net/tei2016/sessions.php](https://www.conftool.net/tei2016/sessions.php "https://www.conftool.net/tei2016/sessions.php")
		- MT seems to have a workshop all day Monday
		- Martina and Peter have a workshop Tuesday
		- Airbnb group of 3: EM, EB, RV
		- Meeting Schedule:
			* Sunday 25 September — Meeting 09:00–17:00
			* Monday 26 September — (MT @ workshop?) 09:00–17:00
			* Tuesday 27 September — (MS \& PS @ Translatathon?) 14:00–17:00
	+ State of accommodation, who is arriving when?
* Sebastian’s Memorial Event
	+ Tuesday 27 September; Wolfson College, (TBC: 10:00–16:00: Time in Austria: 11:00–17:00\)
	+ Council invited to skype in and deliver a short thing saying how much Sebastian meant
	 to TEI etc.
	+ Dress Code: Bright/Loud Shirts
	+ Suggested Themes: Rome, Southampton, Tex/Latex, TEI, Claros, Archaeology, Running,
	 Open Data, OSSWatch, India, Digital Humanities, Mischief
* "Whither TEI?" session at Members' Meeting
	+ See Martin Mueller's piece (posted to the Board/Council list a couple of weeks ago)
	+ Council will be running this session. We'd talked about using it as a forum to ask
	 the community questions.
		- Need to figure out the logistics: one hour (plus time in Business Meeting?!)
		- SB proposes 3 quick presentations that raise questions, followed by discussion
		- Need to figure out the questions:
			* Big picture questions: Weak points in the TEI? / Road to P6?
			* LB suggests we should address a lack of understanding in the community about writing
			 ODDs (EB)
			* What it takes to make a small change to the Guidelines? \- disagree that showing all
			 the technical details will be compelling (EM) \- but maybe explain the infrastructure
			 in general way.
			* Goal: provide more insight into what Council does and how it works \- less about software
			 and more about schema? (EM)
		- Roundtable format? But venue might be more like a lecture hall
		- Chair? needs to be someone who can keep things rolling
* Do we want an attribute default value deprecation warning in Schematron? (SB)
	+ Aye: **silence**
	+ Nay: HC, JC, LB, SB, SM, EB, EM, MS
	+ They “nays” have it (unlike Lincoln)
* Our upcoming cooperative stylesheet educational series (heretofore known as “CSES”)
 (SB)
	+ Only Martin Holmes, EB, PS, Ron Van den Branden, MS, JC, and SB responded to the [poll](http://doodle.com/poll/5wmatw4rc66isyab "poll"). Thus we 6 get to decide when the meetings will be. E\-mail will go out on that topic
	 soon, probably later today. (So if you want input on when they will be, respond to
	 poll within a couple of hours after our conference call.)
	+ **Action on SB** to schedule. At least one before the F2F
* Ticket triage (if there's time. There wasn't.)
	+ HC will start assigning issues on 2016\-08\-02
	+ Revisiting @when, @notBefore, and @notAfter on date: [https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1487](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1487 "https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1487") (EB)
	+ Council thinks leave well enough alone. If you want to use @when that way, then modify
	 in your ODD and document (though you will probably then be non TEI conformant, so
	 better use a different attribute name like @mh:when)




