---
title: "TEI Technical Council Meeting"
date: 2014-03-07
---
# TEI Technical Council Meeting,



Present: Hugh Cayless (HC)
 Fabio Ciotti (FC)
 James Cummings (JC)
 Elli Mylonas (EM)
 Martin Holmes (MH) (Minutes)
 Stefanie Gehrke (SG)
 Sebastian Rahtz (SR)
 Paul Schaffner (PFS)
 Peter Stadler (PWS)


Apologies: Syd Bauman (SB), Lou Burnard (LB)
 
 



 Actions Arising
 
 * EVERYONE: Book travel tickets for FTF in June/July.
* PFS, SB: Complete the Doodle poll for the fall meeting at <http://doodle.com/46gbvkft7puiw5fc>.
* SR: Rewrite TEI Simple proposal as planned.
* EM: Create a TEI Wiki page to field and organize proposals for the Hackathon (assuming
 the proposal is accepted).
* HC, FC(?): Add examples to the TEI XPointer draft (some from FC if he has time).
* PWS : Circulate information on the 
 correspDesc and 
 standoff element proposal to the Council list.
* EVERYONE: Comment on the [Object Working Group proposal from Torsten Schassen](http://lists.village.virginia.edu/pipermail/tei-council/2014/019049.html).
* EVERYONE: Update status of tickets and tasks on [http://wiki.tei\-c.org/index.php/Oxford2013\-Actions2](https://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/Oxford2013-Actions2).
* JC: Assign new tickets and circulate a list.
* JC: Assign RW's tickets to PFS.
* JC: Check with KH and BB regarding their tickets, and reassign as necessary.




 Review of actions, SF tickets
 
 
 JC: There were several reports on the mailing list, but they came in too late to read,
 so we’ll summarize them when we come to them.


JC: We’ve all been very bad (except SR) at staying on top of our tickets. I haven’t
 had a chance to categorize and assign new tickets either, but you don’t have to wait
 for me to do that before working on them. We can’t go through the complete list of
 actions now, so could everyone please update the status of their Oxford actions ([http://wiki.tei\-c.org/index.php/Oxford2013\-Actions2](https://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/Oxford2013-Actions2)) and in the next couple of days I’ll circulate a list.


EM: I posted a query to the list recently, and either it didn’t get through or wasn’t
 responded to \[it did get through]. In some slight defence, dealing with tickets does
 require feedback and help from others.


JC: If you don’t get a response from Council, keep badgering, and feel free to say
 what action you will take in the event of no response, with a deadline.


JC: If I assign a ticket to you, and you don’t think you’re the right person for it,
 please say so. You can trade tickets around as well.


PFS: Tickets assigned to RW: I asked her about them but got no response, so those
 tickets should be assigned to me, and I’ll try to get her help with them if I can.


JC: Will do. Also Kevin has some tickets which he wanted to carry on working on. I
 emailed him a day or so ago.


PFS: Kevin is unlikely to do anything in the near term.


JC: I’ll wait for a reply from him, and if he’s going to be too busy, I’ll reassign
 them. I might direct one of us to assist him.


SR: What about BB’s tickets? He still has a couple, including Attributes Without Examples,
 which he shares with RW.


JC: I’ll go through SF and reassign them if necessary. I’ll give everyone a week from
 today to complete the list of actions and then work through everything and reassign
 as necessary.




 Report on upcoming face\-to\-face (JC)
 
 JC: I’ve booked accommodation for everyone non\-Oxford except HC, who can’t make it,
 Sunday night through Friday morning. Food will be in\-office on day 1, dining\-room
 on day 2, and is still open for day 3 (we might go out that day).


JC: It’s the same building but different rooms. I’m still trading rooms with people
 to try and get us in the same room for all three days. All this has to be done early
 for bureaucratic reasons.


FC: How shall we organize payment for plane tickets? Should we pay and then reclaim?


SR: That’s how it’s usually done.


FC: How do we deal with tickets in the meeting?


JC: We tend to deal with them in breakout groups. \[JC mishears about tickets]


PFS: The question was about plane tickets.


JC: Oops. Book the tickets yourself, and then you’ll claim back directly from the
 TEI afterwards.


FC: I have no SF tickets assigned right now.


JC: That will change in a couple of weeks!




 Report on autumn face\-to\-face (HC)
 
 HC: Please fill out the poll if you haven’t already, so we can pick dates.


JC: Any preferred date at the moment?


HC: Nine people have completed with most of the dates still looking good.


<http://doodle.com/46gbvkft7puiw5fc>




 Report on TEI Simple (SR)
 
 JC: Reports from MM that some funding issues have been solved. When we go to Mellon
 we can go with matching funds in hand. We also have an excellent dependable XSLT programmer.


SR: So the next stage is that I rewrite the proposal to say where we need money and
 where we need time. MM is almost ready to go to Mellon. It’s all still dependent on
 getting the Mellon funding.




 Report on TEI Hackathon (EM/SR/etc)
 
 EM: We submitted a proposal to the DH conference committee for the hackathon. I think
 everyone saw the final draft. There were no comments \-\- should I post it again?


JC: Let’s see if they accept it.


EM: We’re offering a one\-day hackathon. If it’s accepted we’ll be sending out a call
 immediately, because we need to know who’s coming ahead of time, and we need to know
 from them what the projects will be, because it will be based on projects that the
 whole group will vote on ahead of time, because we will be forming people into groups
 to work on the proposals. We have SR and SB, and HC will be coming in remotely. We
 also invited Alexander Czmiel. We have an offer for food from the TEI, which will
 need some organization because they’re not offering catering at the conference. The
 Board is completely behind this. Thanks to those who helped with the proposal. People
 are really encouraged to apply and attend if you’re going to be there.


JC: When do we find out about acceptance?


EM: Mid\-March \-\- 17th or 20th. The workshops are on two days before the conference;
 we hope ours will be on the day before, but we can’t be sure.


FC: I have an issue with XTF relating to management of lexical items with markup inside.
 Is this the sort of thing that might be addressed, or is it too complicated and dependent
 on an install of XTF?


EM: You mean a possible extension to XTF, right? The goal of the hackathon is to get
 people who are somewhat technical and get them to do something interesting with TEI.
 That could be a good project, or people might decide it’s too esoteric. The thing
 to do is to propose it as soon as we get the proposal system in place and issue the
 call.


JC: I’d suggest the TEI Wiki is the place to organise most of this in a nice open
 way.




 Report on Text Directionality (MH/LB)
 
 SR: If we have a ftf at the end of June, I can’t see us getting a release out before
 the end of July, and thats getting into summer school and DH2014 territory in a messy
 way


JC: We could work hard on our tickets and do a release some time at the end of May.


SR: It might be cleaner to do that, so that things get finished before the ftf.


EM: The latest Oxygen, which handles rtl better than it did before, depends on a dir
 attribute of some kind. 


…


JC: Let’s say that we’re aiming for a release in May, and if you have it ready for
 then, that would be great.


SR: You should go back and look at ITS version 2, which came out last year: http://www.w3\.org/TR/its20/


MH: It doesn’t seem to have anything related to vertical directionality, which was
 why we rejected ITS in the first place.




 Report on TEI Conference (JC) 
 
 JC: Elena Pierazzo, John Unsworth and I are a program committee and are assisting
 MM in organization. The date and venue has been set. MM has made lots of progress.
 He’s made room arrangements and a specific hotel has been chosen. A website will still
 go up, and its designer has been talking to the ConfTool team. Mike Witmore, the director
 of the Folger Library, has agreed to give a keynote; MM has been added to the TEI\-SIGs
 mailing list to make it easier to negotiate with SIGs about the space they need. Julia
 Flanders plans to do a day\-long rollout of TAPAS on the day following the conference,
 and various library institutions will be involved in the conference.




 Object Working Group
 
 JC: I re\-circulated Torsten’s proposal which we circulated in January. At that time
 it got approval.


FC: Why has a specific working group been convened when the Ontology SIG could also
 contribute to a discussion about text\-bearing objects?


JC: The MS SIG and the Ontology SIG have agreed to cooperate through this working
 group to create the proposal, and there is some funding available from the board for
 the working group. This WG has a much more specific charter to work on this particular
 problem, while the SIGs have a more general role.


JC: We need to get back to Torsten with feedback on the proposal. Let’s comment either
 on the mailing list or on the wiki page in the next week, and I’ll take all the responses
 back to them after that. I think we’re generally in favour of the proposal; the actual
 details are not our concern at this stage.


SR: The NeDiMah network has some money left over, and the group on linked open data
 requested some money (enough to hold a meeting and bring some people to it), which
 was agreed. This gives us immediate funds to hold a meeting, which will probably happen
 in Oxford.


SG: I sent comments, and I’d like to know if they were helpful.


JC: I passed them on to Torsten.




 TEI XPointer Proposal (HC)
 
 HC: I’ve had a response from FC, with some very useful corrections and requests for
 clarification, which I will implement. The main thing it still needs are examples.
 Once I’ve added examples, in the next couple of weeks, I’ll ask again for feedback,
 and if there’s no objection I’ll be ready to merge it.


FC: I’ll provide some examples, if I find the time to work on them.




 Any Other Business
 
 PWS: We’re making good progress with our proposal for a 
 correspDesc element and the 
 standoff element (as yet unnamed). I will circulate information on the mailing list.




JC: Thanks to everyone for attending. Please go through the minutes document before
 Tuesday morning Pacific Time, then we’ll TEI it and put it online. Go through the
 actions list and update the status of your tickets, and I will then go through it
 and reassign as appropriate in a couple of weeks.




