---
title: "TEI Technical Council Teleconference, 2021-06-10"
date: 2021-06-10
---
# TEI Technical Council Teleconference, 2021-06-10
**Meeting times:** 


* 10 am–11:30 pm PDT, 1 pm–2:30 pm EDT, 6 pm–7:30 pm BST, 7 pm–8:30 pm CEST
* Started: 17:07Z    Ended: \~18:32Z


**Present:**
* Syd Bauman (SB)
* Helena Bermúdez Sabel (HBS)
* Elisa Beshero\-Bondar (EBB)
* Meaghan Brown (MB)
* Hugh Cayless (HC)
* Janelle Jenstad (JJ)
* Martina Scholger (MS)
* Peter Stadler (PS)
* Magdalena Turska @ 17:25 (MT)


**Apologies/Not Present:**
* Jessica Lu (JL)
* Raff Viglianti (RV)


 
Next Release: August
--------------------


* Techs: HBS, MS, PS
* Not during Balisage! (2–6 August)
* PS on holiday before August 9\. HBS and MS on holiday in July.
* Wed 18 Aug (Freeze Sun 15 Aug; refrigerate Wed 11 Aug)
* Meeting times: **From July: Thursdays — 10:30 am PDT, 1:30 pm EDT, 7:30 pm CEST**
	+ After\-the\-fact addition: MH says that time slot is OK.


Next VF2F meeting
-----------------


* Discussion about meeting in person.
	+ Paderborn
	+ When? Spring 2022 (goal)
	+ Revisit after elections; watching pandemic.
* Full or short meeting for virtual?
	+ Short
	+ End of July? August? MS opened a doodle.


TEI\-C 2021 elections
---------------------


* <http://bit.ly/TEICelections2021>
* Current members whose terms end at the end of 2021:
EBB, MB, JL, MS, PS, MT
* Open positions for TEI\-C Council
	+ 4 members (for 3\-year term)
	+ 2 members (for 1\-year term)
* Discussion about how to handle the two different types of terms.
	+ There doesn’t seem to be anything on the current form acknowledging that there’s two different term lengths.
	+ Possibly need a way for people to indicate preferences for 3 or 1 year?
	+ Top\-ranked person gets the first pick of a 3\-year or 1\-year term.
* It's a temporary issue. At the 2023 elections, we will already be in a three\-year cycle.
* We need to announce the rules of the election and stick to them.
* But probably an issue for the Board and the Elections Committee.
* JJ will take a summary (written by SB) back to the Elections Committee to take back to the Board for a decision, with a note that clarity in advance is important.
* Watch for gender/age/race/academic status balance.


GitHub issues \#2049
--------------------


* Someone please explain to SB what happened to \<altIdent\> in the most silly places: Working on [2049](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/2049) I (SB) find it is no longer allowed in \<category\>, \<joinGrp\>, or \<taxonomy\>. Did I change that? Did someone take \<altIdent\> out of model.glossLike?
	+ Answer: Yes, SB changed that. See <https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/pull/2032>
* Multiple nested objects: <https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/2152> — We agreed to make it so.


AOB
---


* OxGarage plans: PS: At Paderborn, we are currently in the lucky position to have a very skilled developer for working on the OxGarage (part\-time, for several years!). While we want to enhance OxGarage for the MEI community, converting Music (notation) file formats, we want to keep a common code base with the TEI’s OxGarage for the benefit of both communities. Plans are to modularize, update and refactor the code base.


 