---
title: "TEI Technical Council Fall F2F, 2017-11-16/18 Parkside Hotel, Victoria, BC"
date: 2017-11-18
---
# TEI Technical Council Fall F2F, 2017-11-16/18 Parkside Hotel, Victoria, BC




Discussion topics (numbered)
----------------------------


1. Stylesheets Issues, Stylesheets Issues, Stylesheets Issues
2. OxGarage
3. Roma(\+JS)
4. Spring F2F
5. TEI/Stylesheets Issues that need extended discussions
	1. @mode in ODD see [https://github.com/TEIC/Stylesheets/issues/272](https://github.com/TEIC/Stylesheets/issues/272 "https://github.com/TEIC/Stylesheets/issues/272")
6. Chapter 11 tickets (see [http://www.tei\-c.org/release/doc/tei\-p5\-doc/en/html/PH.html](https://www.tei-c.org/release/doc/tei-p5-doc/en/html/PH.html "http://www.tei-c.org/release/doc/tei-p5-doc/en/html/PH.html"))
7. LingSIG tickets (PS to prepare those)
8. [Docker proposal](https://docs.google.com/document/d/15-GAMkL6FUJziY4M1rAb6EBOx871abFXjMLGmfMHJKI/edit?usp=sharing "Docker proposal")
9. Council communication channels: use more Slack (but can we make our Slack open for
 others to read?)
10. Should SG still cover RELAX NG? (would be good to have LB’s input)
11. New Saxon \& oXygen plug\-in. Breakout Group (MH, SB, JC)
12. Elections stuff
13. Processing Model extensions Saturday morning
14. MT: Publication SIG proposal
15. JC suggests that 1 day of all TEI Council Face to Face meetings be open to any TEI
 member. i.e. they should be allowed to attend, contribute thoughts/ideas but not have
 voting rights if something is voted on.
16. Periodicals SIG proposal




F2F Agenda
----------




**Nov. 16**
-----------



### **Morning**



#### 


Started @ \~09:15\.


#### **\#15**: opening Council meetings or parts of them


JC derails the agenda of the meeting for the first 20 minutes by suggesting an ‘easy’
 topic to council members and thus the meeting descends into 20 minutes of chaos and
 destruction. (Praise Cthulhu!) He does this by suggesting that he wants to open up council business so people can
 see what goes on by possibly having it be tradition that one day or morning/afternoon
 of council meetings is open to any TEI member. Broad brainstorming on the role of
 the council and its practices re openness, transparency, bringing kind of expertise
 required on the Council (or for the maintenance of TEI) out to the world.

 JC: in favor of this because this opens up what the Council does, it’s a way to bring
 in new people by showing what we do. EB\-this is a way of cultivating wisdom in the
 community \- special kind of event \- for ex. A workshop SB: likes idea, but wants decision
 to be part of meeting planning. EM: Bring council work to the fore during the Members’
 meeting. Schedule conference sessions where we present discussions about important
 issues: to clarify the way Council deliberates.
MH: Workshop: Council could select 2 or 3 tickets. Go through process of cloning the
 repo, work on solving the tickets and generating a pull request during the meeting,
 perhaps.
JC: problem of perception of "high priesthood" working in exclusion
RV: we need time to work, and opening Council session to community loses time we need.Have
 some community\-facing workshop or session associated with any F2F meeting.
**\[ACTION] on HC**: will raise this with the board.


#### Summary:


1. General agreement with JC’s proposal that we try to open part of the Council meeting
 — not hard policy, but by tradition \& custom rather than by requirement.
2. Program committee reserves panel slot for the Council to discuss real issues for discussion
 and present them to the membership, discuss motivation, problems, possible solutions,
 constraints \- needs to be discussed with the conference committee
3. Workshop: Council member(s) could propose issues for discussion \& deliberation to
 provide a guided introduction to Council work.


MT: Are we having problems with any below, if so, to what extent and what are possible
 actions to take
**Transparency:**
* opening the meeting, Council records, issue tracking and public discussion




#### **\#12: elections stuff**


**Council member rotation:**
* to what extent it is desirable,
* are we facilitating it enough or not,
* are there any obstacles and what are they
	+ Not enough candidates considering running
	+ Low chances of being elected for non\-high profile TEI practitioners \[help them write
	 their bios/statements better]
	+ Can we keep ex\-Council members involved and working?
* Length of terms of Council — JC suggested 3 year terms to the Board.
	+ No one seems to be taking notes about this bit.
	+ EM: We maybe don't need to change policies, but change our behavior\-\-to help encourage
	 smooth transitions and guide people to understand Council better?)
	+ Various council members wonder if the russians have hacked the TEI election. EB: The
	 hackers need to be assigned difficult tickets! :\-)
	+ Have we stopped talking about 3 year terms?
	+ Council hand\-raising vote indicates we're in favor of moving to 3\-year terms\-\-a suggestion
	 from Council to Board. Not in favor of changing election to mandate new member on
	 Council if not chosen by votes only because it doesn’t know whether this was a problem
	 or not. Council will investigate (MT leading) to see if this is a real problem based
	 on the data..
* Council Chair: Hugh limited to two terms.. HC would like to step down as Chair in
 Jan 2018 in order to have a year of overlap with his replacement.


**Community participation**
* Encouraging community participation in Council work


**Transmission of knowledge essential to TEI maintenance \& development**
* Workshop (perhaps a regular\-ish feat linked to f2f meetings)




#### \#14 \- Publications SIG:


MT with Julia Flanders and Gimena del Rio Riande: to discuss publication options for
 bringing TEI ODD Processing Model to TAPAS. MH: interested in join as long as it's
 not focused only on the processing model. JC: Concentration should be on publication
 technologies. Magda urged to write proposal and submit. We all think it’s a great
 idea. JC warns that name is ambiguous\-\-rethink it. (i.e. it isn’t about ‘publications’
 like journals, or the publishing industry, it is about publishing tei.


#### **\#16 Council also says yes, approving Periodicals SIG proposal.**




#### Related: Does there need to be a Council Liaison for this and other SIGs?


Discussion: Council should make sure new SIG leaders actively reaches out to periodicals
 TEI projects not represented at meeting(s). EM points out the organizers should be
 encouraged to reach out to existing projects doing newspapers with TEI. JC: Notes
 that really the Chair of Council already liaises with the SIGs.
PS suggests to actively approach people/groups who are preparing some larger proposals
 (to the Guidelines) and name some Liaison from Council
EB: should SIG appoint liaison to communicate to Council (instead of other way around)?
 Discussion: that's really the job of the SIG convener. "Anything you would like me
 to bring up at the Council meeting." Council liaising is difficult to maintain...(What
 are the logistics?) EB: asks about slack channel agenda item, whether this is related.
SB protests that managing SIGs is not Council's role.
PS: We shouldn't wait for SIGs to approach us, but actively communicate with SIGs.
HC: Do we need a special label for tickets to be brought to SIG attention?
PS: Council members could check in with inactive issues AND SIGs
JC: Plenty of SIGs don't always propose tickets, and we don't necessarily need them
 to stir up new tickets all the time. They are often birds\-of\-a\-feather with similar
 interests. Not all SIGs' *raison d’etre* is to propose tickets and improve the Guidelines. SIGs like that are perfectly fine
 also.
HC: Council members could open special tickets could be points of contact for connecting
 with people/ encouraging people with nascent proposals for Council to act on. Translate
 concepts to actionable tickets.
What to do about gigantic messy discussions on tickets? Maybe we need better/stable/sustainable
 places to flesh out ideas.
* Not Google docs so much as Wikis.
* Text or Markdown or TEI files committed to GitHub repo.


Website right now is in no condition to help. Site migration is a serious problem
 right now.
Resolution: we don't really need SIG liaisons. SIGs are centers of activity, but not
 the only ones, emerging from TEI community. Council members just need to be aware
 of what's going on and open tickets accordingly. Suggestion that we have standing
 SIG “what’s up with the SIGS” agenda item. Keep an eye on good mechanisms for communication!


#### \#1: Battleplan for Stylesheets!!!!


Need to
* Stop fires
* Architectural questions: how to maintain Stylesheets for the long term?


RV: What major issues with current architecture?
HC: They are ingenious and impenetrable: takes a long time to figure out what has
 to be fixed and where?
If we had "smaller bits that did smaller things" that might be easier.
RV: Maybe we don't need keys any more
JC: remove stuff that's legacy of XSL 1
MH: When they worked on JTEI, they broke free of Stylesheets architecture, to Sebastian's
 concern\-\-but it was just too difficult to work in that framework.
Markdown \<\-\-\> TEI different from DocX . Need to understand the differences.
SB: Worth remembering that converting to DocX isn't really Council's responsibility.
MT: Can we use ODD proc model to produce the Guidelines? JC: That was Sebastian's
 intention. RV: We'd need to be able to do this outside of eXist
SB: "Rub\-a\-dub\-dub project": clean up stylesheets for consistent variable names, consistent
 location of function definitions. Perhaps prioritize that and look at the results\-\-is
 it easier to maintain a cleaned up version. JC: Due date? MT: Clean up, or better
 direction to do a rewrite?
SB: Perhaps rewrite only the bits we need.
EB: One goal of "rub\-a\-dub\-dub" was to understand the code and its interdependencies
 better, identify the outdated parts.
PS: Hard to tell what's Council's responsibility or not here: People rely on these
 transformations.
JC: ISO paid TEI to produce a seamless transformation to/from DocX. MH: Not clear
 whose responsibility that was to maintain, but lots of people use.
MH: We need to start with odd2odds.xsl
RV: try rewriting odd2odds from scratch\-\-considering the probs we've had with modes,
 etc.
TEI Website parts that aren't Guidelines\-\-about to be handled by Wordpress?
Summary: MH and RV want rewrite. SB wants clean\-up first\-\-could be more efficient.;
Functions need documentation of input, output, expected behavior. JC: Lots of this
 is provided by the auto\-generated documentation. Consistent code format would help
 improve this.
Formatting, variable naming, key naming.
SB could work alone, but EB maintains there ought to be lots of us watching and checking
 and making sure the documentation is clear. JC: Otherwise we create conditions for
 a new Sebastian.
**Council suggestion is: \[ACTION] on SB:**Syd works on cleaning and documenting odd2odd.xsl stylesheets reports back in January.
 Works with frequent pull requests so there is code review. This is a test case to
 see what the scope of this work is. If he can do this in a reasonable time, it’s a
 good sign, others can start to work as well on other stylesheets. Also, Syd might
 report back on some workflows.



### Afternoon


12:00–13:00: talk with Christian\-Emil Ore about Ontology issues: [327](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/327 "327"), [1655](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1655 "1655"), [367](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/367 "367"), …?
We (TEI) are missing elements to describe physical objects and abstract objects. \<msDesc\>
 does this for manuscripts.
So one method is to see if these elements can be generalized. Thus clean up TEI a
 bit w/ respect to ontological categories.
Another method would be try to make a hierarchy of some TEI elements.
* Reframe current class system?
	+ Add “philosophical” class system that supplements current structural system.
	+ “Inheritance” system
	+ Mapping TEI to CIDOC (use \<equiv\>?): context: Christian has used CIDOC as a model
	 to view/comprehend TEI.
	+ 8 classes:
		- Persons
		- Events
		- Place
		- Time / date
		- Physical object
		- Conceptual object
		- Names
		- Types
	+ Ontological mapping doesn't match TEI prosopography hierarchy, but can be mapped from
	 it.
	+ Abstract object : Christian's example: intellectual property rights
	+ What are the use cases for this?
	+ Taxonomy of editorial, authorial, etc. elements?
		- Could contribute to conformance
		- Formalizing abstract model
	+ msDesc: Description of ms object to appear in an object\-ography\-\-an object container,
	 or a history container…
	+ Separating out discussions of listObject \& listEvent (we still want to be able to
	 distinguish bw lists of objects \& the events that happen to them)
	+ What’s wanted: Change the TEI to express places, objects, etc. in a more “ontologically
	 sound” way
	+ Relevant issue to be reopened (or open a new one with reference to original):[https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/327](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/327 "https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/327")
		- **\[ACTION] on JC** has re\-opened and self\-assigned this to at least come up with a draft proposal for
		 \<listObject\> \<objectName\> and \<object\> elements.
	+ Rationalize content models for place \& person (could be rabbit hole), and there is
	 already a ticket about it.
		- Find low hanging fruit instead
		- Should we review elementSpecs and add equivalences w/ @equiv?
		- Mapping to CIDoc wouldn't ensure by itself consistency of TEI abstract model
		- Consult Fabio Ciotti\-\-prior mapping efforts?
	+ Summary: C.\-E.O. will have a look into how to introduce object, object description,
	 conceptual object and conceptual object description, and how they compare to msDesc
	 also 2nd thing, look into hierarchy of TEI classes and how it compares with conceptual
	 content of elements.


Lunch: MH and SB suggest the Old Spaghetti Factory. The Ghost of Lou revulses in horror.
 RV refuses to return to this monstrosity after council visited it in this instance.
MT gathers data on elections in 2002\-2017 period and gives some tentative answers:
* 94 individuals running up for the Council, 35 women
* 43 individuals have been elected, 14 women
* [http://admin.exist\-db.org:44455/exist/apps/tei\-elections/index.html](http://admin.exist-db.org:44455/exist/apps/tei-elections/index.html "http://admin.exist-db.org:44455/exist/apps/tei-elections/index.html")Photo by [http://www.fourframesphotobooth.com/](http://www.fourframesphotobooth.com/ "http://www.fourframesphotobooth.com/")



#### Day 1 Groups and Stylesheets tickets:


* Group A (SB, MH, JC), *FIXED THE BUILD*, 174, 175, 294
* Group B (EB, MT, PS, MS) [264](https://github.com/TEIC/Stylesheets/issues/264 "264"), [261](https://github.com/TEIC/Stylesheets/issues/261 "261"), [1672](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1672 "1672")
* Group C (SS, EM, RV, HC) [161](https://github.com/TEIC/Stylesheets/issues/161 "161"), [123](https://github.com/TEIC/Stylesheets/issues/123 "123"), [147](https://github.com/TEIC/Stylesheets/issues/147 "147")






Nov. 17
-------



### **Morning**


The council sang Happy Birthday to its chair, HC.

#### Discussion


* Should we still cover RELAX NG in [SG](https://www.tei-c.org/release/doc/tei-p5-doc/en/html/SG.html "SG")?
	+ Add information on PureODD \- add new section. Or mention and point to the chapter.
	+ Should cover RELAX NG.
	+ How much do we want to overhaul this chapter? EB
		- Probably not much because of its popularity SB
		- **\[ACTION] on EB** will do \- light editing, addition re ODD
		- Open issue for this: [https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1708](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1708 "https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1708")




#### \#4: Spring face to face meeting discussion


* If Cologne, start Fri 23rd till Monday Feb. 26 in conjunction with German DH conference.
 Have it run before the conference\-\-conference ends Fri. 2018\-03\-02\.
* Paderborn an option around Mar 5
* JC could facilitate a meeting in Newcastle and might try to tempt some council members
 to Newcastle if they are in Europe.
* MT happy to find a place in Warsaw but since we have many candidates already let's
 reserve that for next year
* **Decision: Friday 23 February 2018 \- Monday 26 February 2018\.**




#### \#2: Oxgarage:


* we aren’t as familiar with its workings as we should be. MT: It could be much shorter
 and easier to maintain in XQuery \- could split out schema creation part from format
 generation parts (used by people outside TEI Council) \-
* Possibilities:
	+ OxGarage alongside simpler eXist wrapper for ODD\-related stylesheets to provide customization
	 API (primarily for Roma, but also the world)
	+ Same as above \+ try and salvage Java code from OxGarage and integrate in eXist app
	 via Java bindings
	+ JC noted that the [http://www.man.poznan.pl/online/en/](http://www.man.poznan.pl/online/en/ "http://www.man.poznan.pl/online/en/")were the people responsible for building the original ENRICH\-EGE [https://sourceforge.net/projects/enrich\-ege/?source\=directory](https://sourceforge.net/projects/enrich-ege/?source=directory "https://sourceforge.net/projects/enrich-ege/?source=directory")which we developed into OxGarage. They may be willing to look at it again for us,
	 but I doubt it.
* PS: OxGarage actually does its job well and it’s good to show stability in regards
 to TEI transformations to other formats.
* RV suggests to keep OxGarage but still create a separate “ODD customization API” (basically
 solution (i) above).
* PS: or just fix that bug that RV found of RomaJS
* **\[ACTION] on PS and RV** to locate the OxGarage bug **(we found a workaround on Nov 18\)** and figure out validation, but wait for a second bug before developing a new ODD
 customization API. MT requests you please take notes on what you find. MH: triage
 the Stylesheets tickets on OxGarage.




#### \#9: Slack


* Slack: can it be public? — seems to be “no”, but we could make an archive public
	+ Use it for issue discussion?
	+ We already have 3 channels (TEI\-L, tei\-council, issue itself)
	+ We can archive it
		- Example: [https://levels.io/slack\-export\-to\-html/](https://levels.io/slack-export-to-html/ "https://levels.io/slack-export-to-html/")
	+ RV had connected GitHub to \#random; group prefers to make a separate channel for git
	 — RV did so. Yay.




#### \#11: Oxygen


* SB: New Saxon \& oXygen plug\-in is needed\-\-maybe discuss this in breakout group. MH:
 Someone on Council needs to be watching the oXygen plugin alongside him.




#### \#6: Chap. 11


* experiment to outsource to non\-Council workgroup. MS shepherds (RV included in correspondence.
 Be in touch with new convener of MS SIG (McCormick). SB: suggests we organize a workgroup
 w/ Gerrit. HC: We want to encourage Gerrit and others like him to work with Council
 members, doing pull requests etc. It does a lot of the modification and improvement
 work up front, allows Council to review at the pull request stage.
* **\[ACTION] on MS** to email Gerrit and get this started (cc RV, McCormick(?), and Martin de la Iglesia)




#### \#8: PS: [Docker proposal](https://docs.google.com/document/d/15-GAMkL6FUJziY4M1rAb6EBOx871abFXjMLGmfMHJKI/edit?usp=sharing "Docker proposal")


* Could be built on AWS, or any institution that will host Docker. (MH: UVic won't permit
 Docker.) EB just applied for an account here to build Jenkins at Pittsburgh Supercomputing
 Center, to install Jenkins in Docker. Maybe good for testing stuff! If approved, can
 add any of us to the account who wants to play with it: [https://www.psc.edu/images/xsedetraining/BridgesMarch2016/VM\_Dockers.pdf](https://www.psc.edu/images/xsedetraining/BridgesMarch2016/VM_Dockers.pdf "https://www.psc.edu/images/xsedetraining/BridgesMarch2016/VM_Dockers.pdf")
* See existing containers at [https://hub.docker.com/r/teic/](https://hub.docker.com/r/teic/ "https://hub.docker.com/r/teic/")


**\[ACTION] on PS**: Peter will build the various docker containers. Various people can host.
**Day 2 Groups:**


#### Group A: (JC, MH, MS, SB)


* TEI Issues:
	+ [Add more elements to att.spanning with schematron constraint](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/197 "Add more elements to att.spanning with schematron constraint")
		- closed
	+ [Change description of TEI Header and simplify content model of TEI](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/561 "Change description of TEI Header and simplify content model of TEI")
		- tweaks to the prose need to be done
	+ [clarify how to encode short\-form citations](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1431 "clarify how to encode short-form citations")
		- see proposal group C
	+ [Add new element \<unit\>](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1461 "Add new element <unit>")
	+ [otiose remarks on abbr](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1520 "otiose remarks on abbr")
		- drop first sentence of the remark
	+ [Remove or rewrite TEI\-Minimal](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1540 "Remove or rewrite TEI-Minimal")




#### Group B: (EB, SS, EM, PS)


* TEI Issues:
	+ [Encoding of Standoff annotations](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/374 "Encoding of Standoff annotations"): punting to PS and Laurent (linkSig ticket)


* [Allow \<relation\> to occur intermittently within parent elements](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/567 "Allow <relation> to occur intermittently within parent elements")Can Syd follow up on the backwards\-compatibility issues (if there are any) here?


* [\`\<path\>\` should exist alongside \`\<zone\>\` for non\-closed areas in facsimile](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1453 "`<path>` should exist alongside `<zone>` for non-closed areas in facsimile")
	+ Discussion: \`\<zone\>\` has capacities to demarcate a 2\-dimensional area. Note: 1453,
	 1474, and 1508 are part of a cluster. We could open discussion to ask, "Do we still
	 need this?" Do we have a need for an @path on zone? In what way is IIIF related/potentially
	 helpful?
	+ Issue: we can draw polygons (closed shapes) in TEI, but don't support open paths.
	+ Recommendation: Perhaps we close this ticket until we have more people working on
	 relation between images and text.
	+ What about a child element \<pointer\> inside \<zone\>?
	+ FURTHER DISCUSSION: revisit the proposal to handle this with @points: to permit describing
	 an open shape without completing closure.
	+ Possibly @closed\="yes" \| "no" OR handle with separate @path vs. @points
* [zone used with JSON, etc: need examples in Guidelines](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1508 "zone used with JSON, etc: need examples in Guidelines")
	+ (Subgroup originally thinks: Give them their attribute (@pointsRef) )
	+ RV: We should ask IIIF group to take a look at this proposal. Interoperability with
	 IIIF might be enhanced by working with this ticket.
	+ Decision: Ask IIIF to weigh in on this ticket.
* [Schematron inside ODD files should be more precisely specified](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1524 "Schematron inside ODD files should be more precisely specified")
	+ It is very convenient just to put the schematron information in elementSpec and not
	 add extra markup like \<sch:rule\> but need to weigh against effort of deriving constraint
	 info. Syd \- pls address in the meeting.
	 Decision: reconsidered by SB and MH: close the ticket.




#### Group C: (RV, HC, MT)


* TEI Issues:
	+ [rationalize content models of org and place and person](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/367 "rationalize content models of org and place and person")
		- Mark status: blocked
	+ [clarify how to encode short\-form citations](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1431 "clarify how to encode short-form citations")
		- Use \<bibl corresp\>
		- See also \#1579
	+ [Description of \<textNode\> is insufficient](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1459 "Description of <textNode> is insufficient")
		- SB to revise; new ticket for \<content\>
	+ [Expand att.notated to all elements commonly used in linguistic markup: \<quote\>, \<s\>,
	 \<cl\>, \<phr\>, \<w\>, \<m\>, \<c\>, \<seg\>](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1514 "Expand att.notated to all elements commonly used in linguistic markup: <quote>, <s>, <cl>, <phr>, <w>, <m>, <c>, <seg>")
		- Made green, prodded AB
	+ [Attribute classes in 'tei' when they shouldn't be?](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1528 "Attribute classes in 'tei' when they shouldn't be?")
		- Possibly just move this class, while doing inventory, too?
	+ [Need to add a check for internal referential integrity on the Guidelines HTML](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1563 "Need to add a check for internal referential integrity on the Guidelines HTML")
		- Added MH in hope he’s willing to help


(Got to here by 16:21\)



### Afternoon



#### Group A: (JC, MH, MS, SB)


* [Add new element \<unit\>](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1461 "Add new element <unit>")
	+ Marked as green
* [Remove or rewrite TEI\-Minimal](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1540 "Remove or rewrite TEI-Minimal")
	+ Marked as green, do proposal
* [add model to schemaSpec](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1580 "add model to schemaSpec")
	+ Marked as green
* [schemaSpec/@source example missing](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1593 "schemaSpec/@source example missing")
	+ Marked as green
* [shouldn't each \<constraintSpec\> (or each \<constraint\>) map onto a \*single\* pattern?](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1625 "shouldn't each <constraintSpec> (or each <constraint>) map onto a *single* pattern?")
	+ Marked as green
* [egXML spec is mysterious concerning @rend](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1632 "egXML spec is mysterious concerning @rend")
	+ JC to go away and test
* [Change structure of supportDesc](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1641 "Change structure of supportDesc")
	+ Asked original poster for a real\-life example to work out best solution
* some \[Note: not even sure this needs discussion. I just need to find instances of this
 flavor of problem and fix them. I think I wanted to ask if we could say referencing
 position of notes related to examples is a bad practice in the style guide?][mix\-ups expanding upon examples in specs](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1654 "mix-ups expanding upon examples in specs")
	+ SS should proceed
* [\<q\> should be allowed in \<span\>](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1658 "<q> should be allowed in <span>")
	+ Not sure.
* [shouldn't the presence of @target or @cRef be made mandatory on \<ref\>?](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1676 "shouldn't the presence of @target or @cRef be made mandatory on <ref>?")
	+ No no no, there are plenty of references that are only prose\-based, and you do not
	 need to have a target on \<ref\>; Close.
* [mode\="clone" on \*Spec](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1697 "mode=\"clone\" on *Spec")
	+ Excellent idea.
* [How to encode measurement](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1707 "How to encode measurement")
	+ Needs more discussion. Connected to[\#1461](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1461 "#1461")(above)
	+ Green: We’re go to make a proposal: we like the concept of unitDecl in header; idea
	 of unit as child is problem: we think unitDef is better.




#### Group B: (EB, SS, EM, PS)


* [Extended Structure for \<additions\>](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1542 "Extended Structure for <additions>")
	+ Subgroup: Just use \<list\> or \<msItem\> in \<msContents\>. Address MHolford’s later comment.
	 Ask James about what he intends.
	+ Decision: change content model to add \<additionNote\> inside \<additions\>
	+ [https://medieval.bodleian.ox.ac.uk/images/ms/cah/cah0142\.gif](https://medieval.bodleian.ox.ac.uk/images/ms/cah/cah0142.gif "https://medieval.bodleian.ox.ac.uk/images/ms/cah/cah0142.gif")
* [Domain of concept of cleanliness](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1586 "Domain of concept of cleanliness")
	+ Skip for now \- followup meeting
* [Status of Schematron rules in TEI](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1621 "Status of Schematron rules in TEI")
	+ Where do we clarify or state what schematron implies conformance (Is it Ch. 23?) \-
	 ask MH to clarify 23\.4\.3\.1 Semantic Constraints
	+ EB is for MH's position 2: Why would Sch warnings pose a problem? We can simply state
	 these don't break conformance.
	+ SB: We only have 9 Schematron rules that issue non\-fatal warnings


* [r](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1626 "r")[equest: accept xmlns\="http://standoff.proposal" where appropriate](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1626 "equest: accept xmlns=\"http://standoff.proposal\" where appropriate")
	+ Requesting more details from Piotr.
* [add listBibl to model.profileDescPart](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1636 "add listBibl to model.profileDescPart")
	+ EB: Note: This wouldn't be parallel to use of listPerson, because it permitted in
	 particDesc (not profileDesc). We'd need something analogous to particDesc to contain
	 listBibl.
	+ PS: I’m with Hugh(?) to say we’re postponing this for \<stdOff\> and in the meantime
	 use \<sourceDesc\> rather than introducing further interim solutions
	+ Ticket[\#374](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/374 "#374")needs to be implemented to deal with this problem\-\-to implement \<linkedDataBlock\>
	 (or \<linkDataBlock\>)


\=\=\=Group stopped here\=\=\=
* [Alter Guidelines re “phrase\-level”](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1645 "Alter Guidelines re “phrase-level”")
* [\<seal\> element description should be expanded to other authentication mechanisms](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1655 "<seal> element description should be expanded to other authentication mechanisms")
* [Things we'd like to do in ODD which haven't been implemented yet](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1663 "Things we'd like to do in ODD which haven't been implemented yet")
	+ Don't think there's anything to do here, but maybe we should chat about it, and whether
	 we need a ticket category for "über\-tickets"
	+ Maybe an ‘ODD Development’ category?
* [New attribute @towhom](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1679 "New attribute @towhom")
* [model.entryPart.top for \<pc\> and \<lbl\>](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1702 "model.entryPart.top for <pc> and <lbl>")




#### Group C: (RV, HC, MT)


* [The namespace URI http://www.tei\-c.org/ns/1\.0 cannot be dereferenced](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1592 "The namespace URI http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0 cannot be dereferenced")
	+ Sadly blocked
* [the "spanTo\-2" constraint in att.spanning](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1624 "the \"spanTo-2\" constraint in att.spanning")
	+ Closed
* [examples and suggested values of unit\= don’t match](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1630 "examples and suggested values of unit= don’t match")
	+ Agree with SB
* [description of classDecl needs revision, perhaps examples](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1640 "description of classDecl needs revision, perhaps examples")
	+ RV, MH, and SB to provide an example
* [model.physDescPart is declared in the wrong module](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1650 "model.physDescPart is declared in the wrong module")
	+ Agree with James, he is so clever, so blocked
	+ We need to agree on a deadline for the ontologies proposal, so we can a) prod for
	 delivery of the report and/or b) unblock and implement dependencies if it won't be
	 delivered in a timely fashion.
* [Guidelines Appendices should include a list of pending deprecations](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1657 "Guidelines Appendices should include a list of pending deprecations")
	+ Mark green
* [Add listRef to model.ptrLike (and expand its description slightly)](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1667 "Add listRef to model.ptrLike (and expand its description slightly)")
	+ Mark green and go with SS’s 1st solution
* Content model of choice is too permissive \[Note: Just fixed this one, hope that is ok.] \[Note: No, we're all really angry with you.] \[Note: more than ok, in fact]
* Description of \<move\> is misleading \[Note: Done]
	+ Mark green and yes to (c)






Nov. 18
-------



### Morning



#### Resume yesterday's issues.


* Finished yesterday’s tickets




#### @mode in ODD elementSpec


* SB Suggests we have a dedicated teleconference to work out this issue. ACTION ITEM: RV sets up phone call.
* Looking at [Stylesheets \#272](https://github.com/TEIC/Stylesheets/issues/272 "Stylesheets #272")
* But this is not just a stylesheets issue




#### Backing up TEI repos


* Just issues or repos?
* Issues and Release artifacts (the binaries we upload) don't persist if the repo is
 destroyed.
* Distinction between preservation of history vs. disaster recovery
* MH: A Jenkins job could backup the Issues once per day. RV: There's an API for that.
 use curl. Keep today, yesterday, and 2 weeks ago. Try setting this up on each Jenkins
 server to run on different days.
 ACTION ITEM: MH to set this up. JC added script pointer on Slack
[https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1714](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1714 "https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1714")




#### Next release date and personnel


* SB: refrigerate \~17–24 Jan, freeze \~25–31 Jan, release on Wed 31 Jan
* MS release manager, HC release tech




#### \#13: Processing Model extensions / [behaviourSpec](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1i3pbRKQMJN3A5ZmlFyncsu4nw08p5JaYi5vIZ3YEI70/edit?usp=sharing "behaviourSpec")


* [Meaningful interpretation for elementSpec/@mode (\#6\)](https://gitlab.exist-db.org/tei-publisher/tei-publisher-lib/issues/6 "Meaningful interpretation for elementSpec/@mode (#6)")
* [Allow external parameters to be defined globally (\#7\)](https://gitlab.exist-db.org/tei-publisher/tei-publisher-lib/issues/7 "Allow external parameters to be defined globally (#7)")
* [Pass general parameters to processed descendants (\#8\)](https://gitlab.exist-db.org/tei-publisher/tei-publisher-lib/issues/8 "Pass general parameters to processed descendants (#8)")




#### \#3: Roma report


RV runs through roadmap. Touches on areas where he needs help (OxGarage, design).
 Continue to organize regular meetings explaining what he’s been doing. Useful for
 RV to stay on track.
[RomaJS report from the members meeting](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1zOhMRT6x74cl1fSHrwnKPsf8oPJiLEDieoONP_px89g/edit?usp=sharing "RomaJS report from the members meeting")


#### Telecon dates/times


* Keep Council meetings on Thursdays at 09:00 Eastern US
* SB will change Stylesheets meetings at some point to Tuesdays at 09:00 Eastern US




#### \#11: oXygen Plugin (again)


* MH: Needs to be updated to later version than 15
* Names of ODD schema \- (for delivery on Exemplars page)
	+ Subset \| Assistant \| Assisted \| TEI\_Customisation\_Assistant
	+ Extension \| Here\-be\-dragons \| \*unqualified\* \| tei\_odds


Amber tickets we didn't cover:
* [Domain of concept of cleanliness](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1586 "Domain of concept of cleanliness")
* [Alter Guidelines re “phrase\-level”](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1645 "Alter Guidelines re “phrase-level”")
* [\<seal\> element description should be expanded to other authentication mechanisms](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1655 "<seal> element description should be expanded to other authentication mechanisms")
* [Things we'd like to do in ODD which haven't been implemented yet](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1663 "Things we'd like to do in ODD which haven't been implemented yet")
	+ Don't think there's anything to do here, but maybe we should chat about it, and whether
	 we need a ticket category for "über\-tickets"
	+ Maybe an ‘ODD Development’ category?
* [New attribute @towhom](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1679 "New attribute @towhom")
* [model.entryPart.top for \<pc\> and \<lbl\>](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1702 "model.entryPart.top for <pc> and <lbl>")


[Unlabeled Issues](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+no%3Alabel "Unlabeled Issues")


#### Ticket and Pull Request Triage on TEI and Stylesheets Repos





| **December** | JC |
| --- | --- |
| **January** | **EM** |
| **February** | **SB** |
| **March** | RV |
| **April** | **SS** |
| **May** | MS |
| **June** | **HC** |
| **July** | **EB** |






### Afternoon


We'll have the room all day. Several of us will be departing in the afternoon, so
 general business should stop by 2–2:30, but those who are staying can keep working
 on tickets if they want.

#### \#7: LingSig discussion


Ling Sig trying to bring linguists back into the TEI fold. Motivates the issues they
 are submitting. Have clone repo of their own and are sending pull requests to TEI
Examining \#1670 \- very detailed.
General feeling in the room was that:
* We very much like the addition of att.linguistic
* Yes, put @lemma and @lemmaRef in it
* We think @pos and @msd are fine
* We think @join is fine but wonder if a different name could be used, or is that exactly
 what this is called in ISO 24611?
* We think @reg would violate the principle of free range text in an attribute value,
 and see very little need for it, anyway.


**NOTE:**We decided to use the combination of “Go” and “Needs discussion” labels to indicate
 that the assignee is cleared to do more work on an issue, we expect it to move forward,
 but we expect more discussion before it is a “Go” to put into the *Guidelines*.
Ended \~16:37


#### **Who is leaving when?**


HC has a 4:45pm flight
JC (Flight AC 8080\), EM and EB have 8:40pm flight taxi at 6ish from Marriott
SB leaves Sun 11\-19 10:00 (from harbor)




