---
layout: page.njk
title: "TEI Council Meeting"
creator: James Cummings
---
# TEI Council Meeting






The TEI Council teleconference meeting took place on Friday
 31 August at 12:00 UTC.



Participants: Arianna Ciula (AC), Syd Bauman
 (SB), Tone Merete Bruvik (TMB), Lou Burnard (LB), James
 Cummings (Minutes;JC), Dan O'Donnell (DO), Sebastian Rahtz
 (SR), Laurent Romary (LR), Conal Tuohy (CT), and Christian
 Wittern (Chair;CW).


Council members unable to participate: David Birnbaum (DB),
 Matthew Driscoll (MD), Dot Porter (DP), and John Walsh (JW).
 





Open action items
 
 
 CW reviewed the action items from the previous minutes.
 



LB Implement Board decision with regard to
 title page. 2007\-08\-15* LB reports that SB seems to have done this already

LB Integrate list of workgroups and
 members into Guidelines. 2007\-09\-01 * LB reports that he has not yet done this, that he
 started but got distracted. 
 LB Integrate list of workgroups and
 members into Guidelines. 
 2007\-09\-07

SB Integrate \<postscript\>
 ODD into Guidelines. 2007\-08\-04 * SB reported that this had been done.

LB/JW Integrate revised rendition
 recommendations into Guidelines. 2007\-09\-01 * Discussion of rendition was delayed in case JW
 joined later. LB commented that the action had been
 approved at the previous meeting but had
 not yet been completed. 
 LB/JW Integrate revised rendition
 recommendations into Guidelines.
 
 2007\-09\-14

CT Re\-implement the earlier facsimile
 examples in most recent proposal. 2007\-08\-15 * CT reported on the facsimile work, and that the
 earlier example had been abandoned in favour of new ones
 LB had produced.

LB, CT, DP Produce P5 1\.0 Draft of
 facsimile markup based on Council discussion and
 integrate with Guidelines. 2007\-09\-01 * This action had been completed and CT and LB
 reported on new draft. SR's example was discussed, but
 LB and CT disagree about the nature of what a
 \<surface\> is and whether it should be
 renamed. SB and AC summarised their understanding of the
 relationship between physical object, and the
 corresponding facsimile elements. There was some
 discussion on the problems encountered if
 \<surface\> refers to the physical object,
 and CT was tasked with proposing changes with examples
 to the council list by 2007\-09\-14\. SR confirmed that
 Council was satisfied with the rest of the proposal and
 especially its indirection in linking. 
 CT Produce workable examples and
 proposals for change to facsimile markup (with regard
 to the meaning of surface and its children).
 
 2007\-09\-14

DO arrived at this point.

DB, TMB, SB, LB Rewrite NH chapter as
 needed. 2007\-09\-01 * SB and TMB reported that this action item was almost
 completed, but needed a bit more work. 
 DB, TMB, SB, LB Revise NH chapter.
 
 2007\-09\-07

Eds Editors to integrate final Dictionary
 revisions into Guidelines, checking language, etc.
 2007\-09\-01 * LB and SB reported that they believed this has
 already been done; SPQR was currently reviewing the chapter.

LB Report back to council on any changes
 to FSD/FS and if necessary rationalise the TEI version.
 2007\-09\-01 * LB has not yet received minutes of the ISO meeting.
 LR reported that they wanted to reintroduce 3 or 4
 elements which had been in TEI P4 but which had since
 been removed in TEI P5\. LB is happy to make the changes
 as soon as we are notified about them. Council agreed
 that this is a special case which should change in order
 to keep in step with the ISO work. 
 LB  Report back to council on any
 changes to FSD/FS and if necessary rationalise the TEI
 version. 
 2007\-09\-14

DO Produce revised proposal about what to
 do with add/del/supplied/edInt/etc. issues 2007\-08\-21 * DO reported that this had been completed, but no
 ODD produced. DO summarised some of the issues but
 promised to produce an ODD by 2007\-09\-07\. LB reminded DO
 that work had been done on this chapter in the meantime
 and to make sure that the latest version was used. 
 DO  Produce an ODD for
 add/del/supplied/etc. proposals with regard to latest
 modifications of PH/CO chapters. Reporting to Council
 list. 
 2007\-09\-07

ALL Comment on revised add/del/supplied
 draft on Council mailing list. 2007\-08\-25* This item is moved forward until after DO produces
 his ODD. 
 ALL Comment on revised add/del/supplied
 proposals on Council mailing list.
 
 2007\-09\-14

LB Integrate add/del/supplied revisions
 (after Council input) to the Guidelines 2007\-09\-01 * This item is moved forward until council comments
 on DO's ODD. 
 LB Integrate any agreed
 add/del/supplied revisions (after Council input) to
 the Guidelines. 
 2007\-09\-20

JC, DP Report back to council on progress
 of formatting of the Guidelines so far and any
 outstanding issues 2007\-08\-06 * JC reported that this action had been completed.

JC, DP All issues should be resolved
 and/or reported to Sebastian and/or Council 2007\-09\-07\.* JC reported that this ongoing item was in hand and a
 lot of work was being done behind the scenes. SR whetted
 Council's appetite by mentioning that navigation had
 been completely revised in the last couple days.
 This item is not due yet and is in progress.
 
 JC, DPAll issues should be resolved
 and/or reported to Sebastian and/or Council.
 
 2007\-09\-07
 Discussion at this point was diverted into
 what to do about specGrpRef and similar elements and
 their rendition in the Guidelines. Many opinions were
 expressed, but JC volunteered to post an initial
 summary of his perception of the problem to the
 Council list to kick\-start discussion. It was agreed
 in any case that the Editors should remove the prose
 leading up to such elements and that if this was to be
 added it should be done in the processing. 
 JC Post a message summarising his
 objections to the way \<specGrp\> and
 \<specGrpRef\> elements are handled to
 Council list. 
 2007\-09\-01

ALL Discuss what should be done about
 \<specGrp\> and
 \<specGrpRef\> elements.
 
 2007\-09\-07

EDs Remove all leading prose before
 \<specGrp\> and
 \<specGrpRef\> elements.
 
 2007\-09\-14

SR Modify XSLT in response to Council
 decisions concerning \<specGrp\> and
 \<specGrpRef\> elements and/or Council. 
 
 2007\-09\-14

DO, SB Produce revised proposal about
 what to do with app/rdg issues 2007\-08\-21 * DO summarised his work on this, but worried it
 might significantly break things. He promises to
 produce a revised proposal and ODD by 2007\-09\-14, and
 post to Council list. 
 DO, SB Produce revised proposal/ODD
 about what to do with app/rdg issues and post to
 Council list. 
 2007\-09\-14

ALL Comment on revised app/rdg draft on
 Council mailing list. 2007\-08\-25 * This item is moved forward. 
 ALL Comment on revised app/rdg draft
 on Council mailing list. 
 2007\-09\-21

SB Integrate revisions (after Council
 input) to the Guidelines 2007\-09\-01* This item is moved forward. 
 SB Integrate revisions to app/rdg
 (after Council input) to the Guidelines.
 
 2007\-09\-28

LB Integrate changes necessary for a
 working implementation for modelling of manuscript
 stemmata, as proposed on council list. 2007\-09\-01 * LB reports that this is not been done yet, but he
 will do so soon and the changes are straightforward.
 
 LB Integrate changes necessary for a
 working implementation for modelling of manuscript
 stemmata, as proposed on council list.
 
 2007\-09\-07

LB Implement rationalisation of
 handDesc/handList/hand, removing handNote 2007\-08\-08* LB reports that this has been done.

ALL Review chapters and correct mistakes
 as per http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/wiki/Review
 from 2007\-08\-04 until 2007\-09\-07 * This action is ongoing and is discussed in more
 detail in the following section.
 
 ALL Review chapters and correct
 mistakes as per
 http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/wiki/Review
 
 2007\-09\-07

All Any new significant technical
 revisions not already under consideration by Council
 should be added to trac for P5 1\.1 to keep track of
 these ideas as they occur to us in P5 1\.0 revisions.
 ongoing * This is an ongoing item. 
 All Add new significant technical
 revisions to trac for P5 1\.1 to keep track of
 these ideas as they occur to Council during in P5 1\.0
 revisions.
 http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/milestone/P5%201\.1\.
 
 Ongoing




 
 Chapter Triage
 
 
 CW asked each Council member present to report on how their
 chapter reviews were going. In general these are well in
 hand. Various Council members raised a number of issues.
 




| Who | \# | Title | Comments |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| AC | 15 | Critical Apparatus | Done |
| AC | 9 | Manuscript Description | Review ongoing |
| CW | 2 | The TEI Header | Done |
| CW | 20 | Representation of non\-standard characters and  glyphs | Some revision needed; Review ongoing |
| CT | 14 | Transcription of Primary Sources | Review ongoing, will reread LB's new  changes |
| DO | 1 | The TEI infrastructure | Done |
| Dan | 13 | Certainty and Responsibility | Done, concerns included discussion on values for  @cert |
| DB | 16 | Names, Dates, People, and Places | Not present |
| DB | 18 | Tables, Formulae, and Graphics | Not present |
| DP | 3 | Elements Available in All TEI Documents | Not present |
| JC | 4 | Default Text Structure | Review ongoing |
| JC | 7 | Transcriptions of Speech | Done, only minor changes |
| JW | 10 | Linking, Segmentation, and Alignment | Not present |
| JW | 11 | Simple Analytic Mechanisms | Not present |
| LR | 12 | Feature Structures | Review ongoing |
| LR | 21 | Feature System Declaration | Review ongoing |
| LR | 23 | Using The TEI (IM, CF, MD, DT) | Done, message posted to Council list expressing  some concerns about what it means to be a 'clean'  modification |
| LR | 22 | Documentation Elements | Review ongoing |
| MD | 17 | Graphs, Networks, and Trees | Not present |
| MD | 19 | Language Corpora | Not present |
| SR | 23 | Using the TEI (NH) | Awaiting revised version |
| SR | 8 | Dictionaries | Review ongoing |
| TMB | 5 | Verse | Done |
| Tone | 6 | Performance Texts | Done |

 Some actions arose during these discussions: 
 SB Check Guidelines prose and examples for
 namespaces which are not TEI, a recognised schema, or
 www.example.com (for example, www.hatstand.org).
 
 2007\-09\-14

LB Expand explanatory prose in USE
 concerning which elements are mandatory and how a user can
 know this. 
 2007\-09\-14

Eds/SR/LR Consider whether
 \<classes\> should have a mode attribute.
 
 2007\-09\-14

LB Post to Council list a call for examples
 meeting particular requirements. 
 2007\-09\-21



 
 Next Meeting
 
 
 The next teleconference was not scheduled. CW will put
 up a meetomatic survey to determine the best date. It will,
 however be at 12pm noon UTC. This will be:
  06:00 MDT in
 Calgary,
  07:00 CDT in Chicago,
  08:00 EDT in New
 York,
  13:00 BST in London,
  14:00 CEST in
 Paris,
  21:00 JST in Kyoto, and
  Wed 18 July, 00:00
 NZST in Wellington.
 
CW CW to set date for next meeting using
 meetomatic, and announce. 
 2007\-09\-07







