---
title: "Teleconference 2015-06-29 14:00 UTC"
creator: TEI Technical Council
date: 2015-06-29
---
# Teleconference 2015-06-29 14:00 UTC





<https://plus.google.com/hangouts/_/g32giwnw3t5eqysbfveh5sd2lma>



Present:
 
 * Syd Bauman (SB)
* Lou Burnard (LB)
* Hugh Cayless (HC)
* Fabio Ciotti (FC)
* Stefan Majewski (SM)
* Raff Viglianti (RV)
* Paul Schaffner (PFS)
* Peter Stadler (PWS)
* James Cummings (JC @ 14:08 \- 14:44\)




Apologies:
 
 - Martin Holmes

- Stefanie Gehrke



 Critical Apparatus Report
 
 
- HC reports that SB’s off\-the\-cuff proposal in Ann Arbor doesn’t work well.

- HC also reports that MH balked at the idea of multiple different \<app\>
 elements for different levels.

- Group wondered if OP (Marjorie B) wanted to break abstract model or not, so they
 asked. She does not.

- SB suggests method used for “odd4odds” may help generate rules to check for
 violations

- \[SB suggests a name for the issue: “the director’s cut problem”]

- SB suggests one criterion: post\-processing, each witnesses encoding must not break
 abstract model. If there is non\-parallelism between \<rdg\>s, that’s your problem.
 ‘Post\-Processing’ could be anything though, so JC argues it needs to be more direct:
 if you choose one or other of the lem/rdg it should validate.

- **Action on SB** to experiment with validation scenarios.





 Status report on Standoff
 
 
- Council working group (PFS, LB, MH, FC, SM, PWS) created an alternative proposal
 as the "Ann Arbor" branch at <https://github.com/laurentromary/stdfSpec/tree/AnnArbor>

- Laurent and Peter will flesh out examples and documentary prose





 Bug 751 (SB)
 
 
[http://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/751/](https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/751/)



- Problem: detailed classes or just one?

- For now just one, SB to implement (by merging for\-bug\-751/ branch into trunk)
 soon





 \<xenoData\> (SB)
 
 Checked in and working in a different branch. Ready to check in to trunk?
 Action on
 SB: generate a copy of Guidelines HTML with \<xenoData\> for people to read.




 Schematron 1\.x (SB)
 
 SB sent an email to TEI\-L this morning asking for usage stats of non\-ISO\-schematron




 Fall F2F update
 
 HC still in discussion w/ Emmanuelle but building is closed on Sun 10\-25, so we’d
 have
 to find our own meeting room. Perhaps in the hotel? Action on HC to check on hotel
 and
 possibility of reserving a conference room there.




 Next release
 
 Before TEI Members’ Meeting in Lyon. SB suggests last week Sept, 1st week Oct; which
 means we’ll have a conference call right near release.



- xenoData

- app(?)

- standOff(?)

- org

- msFrag





 Pure ODD
 
 
- Lou blocked due to a problem with the implementation of dataSpec

- Yes, we do plan to continue to support RNG\-ODD even after PureODD is available, at
 least for some time.

- Need to talk soon about when to switch to new datatype definition method.






