---
title: "Teleconference 2015-03-27 12:30 UTC"
creator: TEI Council
date: 2015-03-27
---
# Teleconference 2015-03-27 12:30 UTC







Teleconference
 2015\-03\-27 12:30 UTC




 Present:
 
 ✓Syd Bauman (SB)


✓Hugh Cayless (HC)


✓Martin Holmes (MH)


(13:05\) Stefan Majewski (SM)


✓Paul Schaffner (PFS)


✓Raff Viglianti (RV)


(✓) Stefanie Gehrke (SG) (online but unable to connect to the call)


✓Lou Burnard (LB)


Apologies


Peter Stadler (PWS)


Fabio Ciotti (FC)


James Cummings (JC)




 Agenda
 
 
- Review of action items from last telecon (see \[[minutes](/Activities/Council/Meetings/tcm66.xml)]).

- JTEI integration into P5, Stylesheets and Oxygen plugin (MH).

- Update on Pure ODD (LB)

- What's in/out of the upcoming release?

- Confirm details of release (code freeze starts today; RV is release
 technician; release on Easter Monday, 2015\-04\-06\)

- use hangouts next time? or stick w/current system?

- other items?

Started 12:38\.


**Transcription of Spoken Language Draft** (LB): The final draft
 is now a non\-public word processor file, which (per LR) requires password
 protection as it’s now an ISO draft. 



- new \<transcriptionDesc\> has not been updated to incorporate previous
 comments

- non\-tessellating \<div\> problem: both prose and an example assert
 non\-tesselating \<div\>s are OK; Thomas Schmidt says they will correct
 this.

- \<annotatedU\>: they have made it more general (and changed GI),
 supposedly matches LR’s standoff markup proposal.

LB considers the latter a work\-in\-progress, not yet a document ready for Council
 to review. Peter S is involved in the work.


**Action on HC** by 2015\-04\-03: contact LR reminding him that it
 would be good if the issue of access to this document were sorted out. Report
 results back to Council.



 jTEI integration
 
 MH we are good to go.


Test build on Jenkins has been crucial and very helpful.


**Action** on **Martin** to send out URL
 for test Oxygen plugin (DONE), and on **Council members**
 to test it


**F2F**


Paul awaiting admin details. Will need input from Council on reservation
 details


**Pure ODD**


[http://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature\-requests/530/](https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/530/) needs
 comment. **Action on all Council to review the proposal and
 comment.** LB will not make further commits until after the freeze is
 lifted. Concern that \<dataNode\> is mis\-named to be discussed this
 week. Note that existing specs will not appear in the release until they are
 explicitly referenced, e.g. by changes to TD.


**Release**


Freeze date is Monday, 2015\-03\-30, 0800 UTC; RV is release tech; release date
 is 2015\-04\-06 (Easter Monday). No blocking problems at the moment. SM asks
 if there is any definition of a release\-blocking problem. The answer is that
 there isn’t a formal definition, but a broken Jenkins build is usually a
 sign things aren’t ready to go. MH notes that if the Oxygen plugin were to
 break, that is compartmentalized and needn’t prevent a release.


**Action on all Council to send HC info on any major changes
 they think should be mentioned in the readme file.**


**Action on HC** to check with Sebastian re stylesheets
 release.


We will have a meeting on “dataNode” to test Google Hangout functionality.
 **Action on HC** to set up Doodle poll.


Ended 13:25\.









