---
title: "Teleconference 2015-04-24 13:00 UTC"
creator: TEI Council
date: 2015-04-24
---
# Teleconference 2015-04-24 13:00 UTC







Teleconference
 2015\-04\-24 13:00 UTC


<https://plus.google.com/hangouts/_/g3tdpgo4o3drx6su6wude3gr2qa>




 Present:
 
 Syd Bauman (SB)


Hugh Cayless (HC)


Martin Holmes (MH)


Stefan Majewski (SM)


Paul Schaffner (PFS)


Stefanie Gehrke (SG) 


Peter Stadler (PWS)


Fabio Ciotti (FC)


Raff Viglianti (RV) (left at 13:39\)


Apologies


James Cummings (JC)


Lou Burnard (LB)


Call started @ \~13:03 and ended @ \~13:54 UTC.




 Agenda
 
 
- Release 2\.8\.1? (MH) (See ticket [http://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/749/](https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/749/))

- 2015 Nominating Committee (need 2 volunteers from Council)

- Transcription of Spoken Language Draft followup (HC)

- standoff discussion (PWS) (see [Laurent's
 repo](https://github.com/laurentromary/stdfSpec))

- Terminology (see [FR 482](https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/482/)) (FC)

- Prep for May F2F

- Ticket review

- Other business?


 Release 2\.8\.1?
 
 MH: Didn’t add predeclare attribute, so this is a legitimate bug, but nobody
 else has reported problems. The Oxygen 17 release is coming up and an update
 might mess up the TEI plugin for them. **Action: SB to look at
 749 and evaluate.** However, SB intends to get local build of P5
 working, first. 




 Nominating Committee
 
 Board would like two members of Council on the Nominating Committee.
 Preferably someone who is not up for election this year, or who has chosen
 not to run this year. 


Tentative volunteers: HC and SM.




 Transcription of Spoken Language Draft followup (HC)
 
 ISO is working on a document that is not yet public; when it’s ready, Laurent
 Romary will share it with us for discussion.




 Standoff discussion
 
 PWS has worked with Laurent on polishing the materials in his repo. There’s a
 need for more work, examples etc. There has also been some overlap between
 this and the spoken language work. Laurent is really just waiting for the
 go\-ahead from Council to produce a full draft. SB proposes calling the
 element “ldb” (for Linked Data Block). SB also suggests adding listChange to
 the content model. Action on PWS to meet with Laurent and try to have
 standoff ready for review by the F2F.




 Terminology
 
 FC suggests we skype Laurent in during the F2F
 if possible. Action on HC to arrange.




 May F2F
 
 PFS has requested rooms from the hotel, waiting for confirmation. PFS to get
 back to us soon (by posting to tei\-council list).


SB asks if we will continue our tradition of technical presentations?
 Suggests MH present on Oxygen plugin. MH agrees.


MH: Should we look at deprecating support for DTDs? They are more of a source
 for bugs than a useful part of TEI. If we can all agree that we would like
 to phase them out at some point, we could set a point X years in advance and
 announce it. This will go on the agenda for discussion.




 Googlehangout for our meetings
 
 Pros: chat window, easy to set up, free, has video (nice turn\-taking),
 screenshare 


Cons: we lost LB due to lack of bandwidth (but that might affect any VoIP?);
 lost RV due to bandwidth, too. Occasional loss of connectivity. Less taking
 of minutes due to video distraction ;) GoogleDoc flags both “GoogleHangout”
 and “Googlehangout” as misspelled.


SM points out GH has a call\-in feature, too. We may try that, either directly
 or using conference call as a participant.




 Tickets:
 
 briefly discussed [https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature\-requests/546/](https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/546/) , assigned to SB.







