---
layout: page.njk
title: "Agenda for TEI Board Conference Call: Tuesday, July 14, 2009, 1400 GMT"
---
# Agenda for TEI Board Conference Call: Tuesday, July 14, 2009, 1400 GMT





July 12, 2009 ([Amended (update)](https://www.tei-c.org/Board/bm34a.xml#correction1 "I was asked last Board meeting to keep an eye on the progress of discussions about the migration of the Vault to Virginia. The main block here--except for inertia--is a new council interest in using the archive for permanent URIs of guidelines versions. James Cummings and David Sewell have") July 13, 2009; [Amended (council report)](https://www.tei-c.org/Board/bm34a.xml#council "Council Report") July 14\)

Daniel O'Donnell


Agenda
------


Contact information for the teleconference is available in the following email on
 the tei\-board mailing list: [\[tei\-board] Conference Space information](http://lists.village.virginia.edu/mailman/private/tei-board/2009/006446.html "[tei-board] Conference Space information"). If you have forgotten your tei\-board archive password, you can find instructions
 on how to get a reminder in our [Procedures, Customs, and Practices Document](https://www.tei-c.org/Board/procedures.xml#mailingListArchive "Procedures, Customs, and Practices Document").
* [14:00 UTC](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2009&month=7&day=14&hour=14&min=0&sec=0&p1=136&p2=179&p3=538 "14:00 UTC") Certification of meeting
* 14:02 [Approval of Minutes](https://www.tei-c.org/Board/bm33.xml "Approval of Minutes")
* 14:05 Reports Comment and Questions
	+ [Chair (DO)](https://www.tei-c.org/Board/bm34a.xml#chair "Chair's Report")
	+ [Conference (DO)](https://www.tei-c.org/Board/bm34a.xml#conference "Conference Committee Report")
	+ Membership (VL)
	+ [Treasurer (DP)](https://www.tei-c.org/Board/bm34a.xml#Financial "Financial")
	+ [Council (LR)](https://www.tei-c.org/Board/bm34a.xml#council "Council Report")
	+ Web Committee (CR)
	+ [Nominations (CW)](https://www.tei-c.org/Board/bm34a.xml#nominations "Nominations")
	+ SIG (SS)
* 14:20 [Per diem question](https://www.tei-c.org/Board/bm34a.xml#perdiems "Per diems") (Decide and assign action)
* 14:30 [Election slate issues](https://www.tei-c.org/Board/bm34a.xml#nominations "Nominations") (Decide and assign action)
* 14:45 [Host representative vacancy](https://www.tei-c.org/Board/bm34a.xml#hostRepVacancy "Host Representative Vacancy") (Decide and/or assign action)
* 15:00[Host RFPs](https://www.tei-c.org/Board/bm34a.xml#RFPs "Host RFPs") (Decide on course of action)
* 15:15 [Approaches to reexamining activity of Board](https://www.tei-c.org/Board/bm34a.xml#boardReexamination "Approach to re-examining the structure and activities of the Board") (Decide on course of action)
* 15:30 Adjournment




Appendices
----------


July 12, 2009 ([Amended](https://www.tei-c.org/Board/bm34a.xml#correction1 "I was asked last Board meeting to keep an eye on the progress of discussions about the migration of the Vault to Virginia. The main block here--except for inertia--is a new council interest in using the archive for permanent URIs of guidelines versions. James Cummings and David Sewell have") July 13, 2009\)

### Chair's Report


As I have done previously this year, I have tried to report on my activities as chair
 since our last meeting by email to the Board List as they have arisen. But some highlights:
 
 * Tite\-Mellon Grant: Since our last teleconference, the Tite\-Mellon committee has issued
 a Request for Proposals (RFP), received the resulting bids, and formulated a shortlist.
 The second stage of the competition, in which finalists are asked to encode specific
 representative sample texts, finalise the details of their bids, and demonstrate their
 project management systems, begins on Monday July 13, 2009 (one week behind schedule).
The first round of the competition went very well. We received a total of 12 submissions,
 with a number of other companies expressing more general interest in our membership
 as a market (including a few not in the Keying/OCR business but rather other aspects
 such as scanning). Most of the bids we received were viable within one or more of
 our parameters for price, management structure, and range of material. With some difficulty,
 we were able to draw up a short\-list of vendors who seem likely to be able to meet
 our preferences. It now seems quite likely that we will receive a bid from one or
 more vendors that will allow us to proceed with the benefit at a price that will make
 the benefit attractive to potential members and with a structure and covering a range
 of material that matches our needs as an organisation.
The process is still on\-time for an announcement (should the programme prove viable)
 at our November meeting\-\-and certainly for the close of the grant on Dec. 31, 2009\.
* Outreach: The TEI is currently engaged in answering two requests for information.
 
 
	+ A request for participation by a contractor from the EU in a survey on the future
	 direction of Information and Communication Technology (ICT) within the EU.
	+ A public Request for Information (RFI) from NASA regarding the digitization of the
	 Werner von Braun archive.
LR and DO are in the process of collecting information for a response to the EU survey.
 James Cummings and DO are coordinating a response to the NASA RFI from the TEI and
 (potentially select interested members). The NASA contacts for the RFI have not responded
 to two requests for basic information about the archive, however (e.g. size and type
 of material), so we may also abandon this.
Other activity include requests to DO to attend workshops in Oslo and (with LB) Russia
 this coming fall. In both cases funding is being taken care of by the hosts.
* Education SIG journal proposal: After the board approved the Education SIGs proposal
 for a journal, there was some back\-and\-forthing about formats, some of which (involving
 TEI and CMS systems) was on tei\-l. James Cummings and LR are being cc'd on the correspondence
 involving this project, and I'm happy that they are proceeding in the right technical
 direction.
* Shopping Cart and Credit Cards: I was supposed to have a budgetted proposal ready
 for this meeting for the implementation of the shopping cart system approved in principle
 by the Board last teleconference. Delays in getting information from the Bank of America
 about merchant accounts (getting on five weeks) are holding this up. The situation
 is beginning to become desparate, however, since we need to set up the shopping cart
 immediately for conference registration purposes. If we cannot get an answer out of
 the Bank of America within the week, I believe we may need to find an alternate solution.
* Per Diems: After much discussion of per diems on the Board list, we left the issue
 unresolved. There was some discussion about whether VL and SS could put together a
 formulation based on their experience with European agencies.
* Vault: I was asked last Board meeting to keep an eye on the progress of discussions
 about the migration of the Vault to Virginia. The main block here\-\-except for inertia\-\-is
 a new council interest in using the archive for permanent URIs of guidelines versions.
 James Cummings and David Sewell have almost completed a [proposal](http://lister.ei.virginia.edu/~drs2n/uri-proposal.html "proposal") on this, which turned out to be more complicated than was initially thought. I hope
 we will be in a state to move further on this this coming quarter.
* Real time updates of membership lists: I was asked with VL and CR to investigate real
 time or cronjob updating list of members from member database as part of migration
 to shopping cart software. Since the Shopping cart software is behind schedule, I
 have not done anything on this.
* Polling Membership on increasing size of board: This is still on my to\-do list.
* Upcoming action: Among upcoming actions, I hope to mail out service appreciation letters
 to members of council, the board, and our committees. I first proposed this last year
 but was unable to act on it in 2008\.





### Conference Committee Report


The conference committee is busy finalising the programme for the conference. The
 committee finished vetting submissions for posters and papers last week, with acceptances
 going out on Friday July 10\. We have a strong slate that looks like it will produce
 a full programme of parallel sessions.
The committee experimented this year with putting out a Request for Proposals for
 pre\-conference workshops. Three proposals were received, of which two were ultimately
 withdrawn for financial or time reasons. We will be having a full day pre\-conference
 workshop from the Philologic group at the University of Chicago. In addition, there
 will be a muti\-day pre\-conference meeting/workshop organised by the Ontologies SIG.
 Still finalising workshop(s) but looks like it will be philologic (with perhaps second
 run by Syd). There is also a {{two}} day workshop planned by the Ontologies SIG.
We have now implemented the late registration fee as discussed on TEI\-Board.
The conference planning committee is behind on sponsorship requests. It is planning
 to focus on catching up in this area at its meeting this coming Wednesday.


### Nominations


\[The nominations committee (Malte Rehbein, JF, and CW) announced the slate of nominations
 on TEI\-Board. See also the agenda item].


### Financial


From [TEI\-Board](http://lists.village.virginia.edu/mailman/private/tei-board/2009/006702.html "TEI-Board"):
 
 
Veronika informed me this morning that two of the $5000 members have resigned. That
 represents roughly 10% of our revenue. I will not have time to go over all of the
 numbers throughly to see if there is any indication of "silent" resignations (simply
 not paying without formally resigning), but we should all be thinking about how to
 cut expenses. I will know more after I have a chance to go over the numbers more thoroughly,
 but I suspect the real pain will come in next year's budget. We came into the year
 with a small reserve.
I worry that next year will also present an additional decrease in revenue. American
 universities are being hit very hard. The University of California cut salaries by
 10%. UVa has not cut salaries or laid off anyone, but if things get any worse, we
 will be approaching such measures. When institutions are faced with losing staff,
 non\- essentials such as membership in TEI go first.




### Per diems


The relevant threads start [here](http://lists.village.virginia.edu/mailman/private/tei-board/2009/006633.html "here"), [here](http://lists.village.virginia.edu/mailman/private/tei-board/2009/006643.html "here"), [here](http://lists.village.virginia.edu/mailman/private/tei-board/2009/006654.html "here"), and [here](http://lists.village.virginia.edu/mailman/private/tei-board/2009/006655.html "here"). At the conclusion of our discussion, we had decided that my proposals were too complicated,
 but there seemed to be a general consensus that this was worth pursuing. I had suggested
 that VL and SS might want to develop a proposal based on their experience, but no
 decision was taken as to further action.


### Election Slate


We need to decide about the immediate issues raised by Christian in [his email](http://lists.village.virginia.edu/mailman/private/tei-board/2009/006675.html "his email"), particularly the question of what an adequate slate looks like in relation to the
 number of vacancies (and how to go about ensuring that we have such a slate).


### Host RFPs


[Article VI.3 of the Bylaws](https://www.tei-c.org/About/bylaws.xml "Article VI.3 of the Bylaws") indicates that hosts must be renewed every four years:
 
 
Thereafter, the Board of Directors shall select a minimum of four TEI\-C Hosts, using
 a public Request for Proposals process. Hosts may be re\-appointed for second and subsequent
 terms, but they must participate in the RFP process.


In our description of the responsibilities of the Host positions, we further note:
 
 
Hosts typically serve for four years at a time, with renewal cycles in 2009, 2013,
 and so on. A call for hosts is sent out at each renewal point, when the existing hosts
 decide whether they wish to continue their role.


2009 is a "renewal points" for Brown, Oxford, Nancy, and Virginia. We need as a board
 to decide what we would like to do. The two most obvious choices are:
 
 * asking the hosts if they would agree to an extension of our current agreements for
 another year while we work on questions regarding the structure and focus of the board
 (and discover the impact of the current economic climate on our finances)
* proposing a new RFP asking for hosts willing to commit to a new four year term carrying
 out specific functions.





### Host Representative Vacancy


In January of this year, the Hosts agreed after some discussionto leave the representative
 seat vacated by Sebastian Rahtz temporarily vacant. In the course of discussions then
 and in recent weeks, it has become clear that there are several by\-law issues at stake:
 
 * The maximum allowable number of members of the Board (Article IV.1, sentence 1\)
* An injunction that the host representative positions must be filled by (normal or
 special) election "\[i]n the event that the appointive option of any of the Hosts or
 the original sponsoring societies is not exercised" (Article IV.1 sentence 4\).
* An injunction that the number of elected and appointed members of the Board must be
 "as nearly equal to the other class as possible" (Article IV.2\)



Given that adding a new host representative would have brought us over our maximum
 of nine members, it is not unreasonable that we have left this position unfilled thus
 far this year. Assuming we are able to resolve the issue of the maximum number of
 Board members, we do need to decide on a course of action for filling this vacancy,
 no later than the next regular election (i.e. November 2009\).


### Council Report


After the council face to face meeting that took place at the end of march in Lyon,
 most of the activities of the council have focused on finalising source forge entries
 to produce the June release. The concil has also tackled some core discussions related
 to its connection to SIGs and special customisations (e.g. Tite). Moreover a workshop
 proposal has been submitted to ESF to find funding for a special brainstorming meeting
 on the possible evolutions of the TEI framework.


### Approach to re\-examining the structure and activities of the Board


We have noted several times over the course of this year, in relation to a variety
 of issues, that we may want to consider reviewing the activities and structure of
 the Board (and, possibly, the length of term for council members). Issues that have
 touched on this include discussions of:
 
 * The future role and responsibilities of Hosts
* The balance of elected and appointed members of the Board
* Questions of finance (particularly administrative inefficiencies)
* Difficulty recruiting candidates for the Board
* The visibility of the Board and its activities.



To this might be added a general pattern of increasing difficulty in finding suitable
 meeting times (see[figure 1](/participation/ "figure 1")) and the likelihood that financial difficulties caused by the current recession will
 require active and vigorous activity on the part of the Board.
These issues are larger than we can deal with in a single meeting. Hopefully we can
 use this time to decide on a course of action, with a goal of having recommendations
 ready for the incoming Board in 2010\.



