---
layout: page.njk
title: "TEI-C Board Meeting 2019-05-09"
---
# TEI-C Board Meeting 2019-05-09
via Zoom


Agenda
======


* Meeting Procedures and Other Announcements
* Updates
	+ Conference (Georg, Gimena)
	+ Nominations and Elections Committee (KT for Pip)
	+ Call for Hosts (KT)
	+ Infrastructure Working Group (Luis)
		- Status of webpage, wiki, journal instances (Luis)
			* Georg\-\-activities
			* KT\-\-Hosting Annual Meeting page
	+ JTEI (KT)
		- Timeline for proceeding with search for new managing editors
			* Anne's notes on to call for new managing editors in email of 15 April
			* KT sent to John Walsh and Board for approval
			* Call for new managing editors to be posted by 1st May, 15 May latest
			* Deadline 30 June
			* notification for face\-to\-face meeting in Graz in September
			* Any Other Business


Attending
=========


* Kathryn Tomasek (KT)
* Gimena del Rio Riande (GRR)
* Luis Meneses (LM)
* Georg Vogeler (GV)


Absent
======


* Christiane Fritze (CF)
* Pip Willcox (PW)
* Martina Scholger (MS)
* Hugh Cayless (HC)


Action items
============


* KT draft a policy about such situations (travel support) and confer with Hugh about how much  Agenda Item for June
* CF to set “conference travels support policy” on the June agenda
* GV to set up a doodle for possible meeting about reviews
* KT to resend the call for hosts on Monday, 13 May\-\-done 2019\-05\-13, contact possible hosts\-\-done 2019\-05\-13
* LM to work on email address for proposals to be sent to\-\-done by 2019\-05\-13, thanks to both LM and HC!
* CF to set “procedure for website updates” on the June agenda
* KT to convert Anne’s proposal into a call for adjunct managers for the jTEI\-\-done and circulated to Board for review 2019\-05\-10\-\-posted to TEI\-L on 2019\-05\-21


Minutes
=======


* Meeting Procedures and Other Announcements
	+ [April minutes](https://tei-c.org/board/board-tei-c-board-meeting-2019-04-11/) approved with brief amendment from GV (“Board approves if list of attendants can be handed in to Hugh early enough before registration.”) in 2\.6 by: KT, GV, GRR
	+ Brief discussion of the concept of “public minutes”: workload of editing
* Updates
	+ Conference GV
		- Currently a bit more than 50 submissions, deadline has been extended to May 12
			* Gimena had an email from a researcher in Africa who asked about free registration / travel support
				+ Discussion about setting up something for this kind of situation; we should be sure to have a policy and announcement; question for Hugh about ability to cover the registration from the TEI general fund; announcement and selection criteria
				+ GRR to encourage her to submit with notation that only able to attend with support
		- reviewers responsibilities will be distributed week of May 14
		- results due beginning of June
		- look for a Doodle for a possible meeting about reviews
	+ Nominations and Elections Committee
		- [documentation](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1P3G90h9nW5icN7jTPZ2Q0fmXyC8eTwexXh3ObqVyXWU/edit#)
		- LM reiterated points about how important testing is before the election.
		- KT mentioned that the call for nominations has been posted.
		- LM asked how long we would like to keep the election open
			* No option for frequency of reminders; but the voting system does stop reminding when you vote; and LM notes that reminders do increase participation.
	+ Call for Hosts
		- no responses, but e\-mail provided in the call is broken.
		- KT to resend the call for hosts 
			* extend deadline to 15 June
			* strategy\-\-approach people from places outside the US/Europe
			* some discussion about the example of Argentina and difficulties of election years; need for conversation about ways to make hosting the conference more reasonable in the Global South
	+ Infrastructure Working Group
		- GV email about activities page: [https://members.tei\-c.org/Events](https://members.tei-c.org/Events); replace Laurent Romary? Advertise policy about TEI events and benefits; anything to update on this event list?
		- KT: generally more activity in updating the website?
		- LM to update name mentioned in [https://members.tei\-c.org/Events](https://members.tei-c.org/Events) to Hugh Cayless
		- We need conversation about procedures for updating website\-\-to June agenda
	+ JTEI\-\-to be handled over email
		- KT to convert Anne’s proposal into a call for adjunct managers
	+ Any Other Business
		- GRR mentions proposal for TEI translathon to be held in North Carolina\-\-Keep your fingers crossed.


* +


Date of next Meeting
====================


June 13 2019