---
layout: page.njk
title: "TEI-C Face to face Board Meeting 2019-09-20"
---
# TEI-C Face to face Board Meeting 2019-09-20
Face to Face Meeting at TEI Member's Meeting in Graz


Agenda
======


* Meeting Procedures and Other Announcements
	+ - Approval of minutes from July and August meeting
		- Actions report
* Conference wrap up and ‘book’ (all)
* Strategic goals for next year
* BOD working culture (all)
* Term extension and succession planning
* Membership campaign?
* Matters from Board/Council meeting
	+ Infrastructure Group
	+ Project list
	+ Website content and responsibilities
* SIGs (all)
* TEI Journal (Kathryn)
* Potential collaboration with the TEI on FAIR data publication platform
* TEI to act as financial intermediary for Marjorie Burghardt DARIAH\-Grant
* Travel/expenses reimbursements for Board and Council
* Any Other Business


Attending
=========


* Kathryn Tomasek (KT)
* Gimena del Rio Riande (GRR)
* Hugh Cayless (HC)
* Georg Vogeler (GV)
* Pip Willcox (PW)
* Gimena del Rio Riande (GRR)
* Luis Meneses (LM)
* Martina Scholger (MS)
* Christiane Fritze (CF)
* James Cummings (JC, Board member elect)


Action items
============


* GV: identify the most perfect documentation
* GV: to ask Walter and Elisabeth to go through conference documentation
* GV: write to programme committee/session chairs to recommend papers for submission to the Journal
* KT: revise list of the year’s activities inherited from Michelle Dalmau
* MS: to discuss with the Council assigning roles to the Council people
* all: think about arguments for change election terms until next meeting (10 Oct)
* LM: to think about a next 2 years term of being Webmaster
* HC: makes a list on Institutions for Institutional Membership
* HC\&KT to find a date for the Membership drive
* CF: to check whether all BOD Members have access to the minutes for the IG
* CF: to send out the project form to TEI Mailing list and other lists
* CF: to send the zenodo\-link of the Business meeting slides to TEI\-L


Minutes
=======


* + Meeting Procedures and Other Announcements
		- GV approved [July minutes](https://tei-c.org/board/tei-c-board-meeting-2019-07-04/), as does KT and PW
		- KT, GV approved August minutes
	+ Conference wrap up and ‘conference organization cheat sheet’ (all)
		- There exists two different documents on conference organisation, one in the wiki, one in the Google drive. GV tries to merge these documents into one and put a timeline in to build a perfect documentation. He will also ask Walter Scholger and Elisabeth Steiner as local organisers of this year’s conference to check back.
		- GV asks chairs (programme committee) to recommend papers from their session for the TEIj journal.
	+ Strategic goals for next year (all)
		- What do we want to achieve during the next 12 months?
			* **JTEI Journal** put it rolling again
			* **Revision of the term lengths** for Board and Council in 2020 elections and going forward. for this, we have to look in the bylaws to see, whether we are allowed to change to terms.
* **Establish Infrastructure Group (IG)**


* + - * + The current group should finish its mission (recovering from the ADHO server fail in January this year. The Board discusses the mission of the new IG (Maintenance Group) and then it has to be established
			* **Aggregate and Clarification of documentation for BOD**
* **Agree process for following up on actions mode of procedure**


* + - * + reorganise existing documentation
				+ other method to deal with action items
				+ roles
* **Website: structure and content**


* + - * + structure and content
			* **Holding an election**
* **Internationalization strategy**


* + - * + e.g. multilingual website (at least the landing page)
				+ guidelines translations
				+ encourage conference hosts
				+ support regional outreach groups/events?
				+ identify missing regional communities (india? arabic?)
* **Enlarge/stabilize Membership**


* + - * + Membership drive
					- website banner
				+ Institutional Members
					- Who used to be institutional member (currently 43\)?
					- Update contact points
* **Strategic budget allocations**


* + - * Policy for support and funding requests
			* Facilitate transnational funding for cultural institutions
		- TEI\-C repository?
			* possibly HumaNum
* BOD/Council Working culture
	+ Documentation
		- Introduce Ticketing system for action items?
			* **LM** to check
			* e.g. github projects (TEI account), redmine
		- onboarding documentation
			* e.g. mailing lists, documentation
	+ Roles in the Council
		- Current status: chair and the rest, and several tasks to be done, newbies and seniors, ..
		- **MS** to discuss with the Council
			* HC e.g. as guidance for the slate
* Expanding the election period (BOD and Council)
	+ KT: Is there more to this than extending terms? Are we discussing elections themselves?
	+ HC: if my reading of the bylaws is correct, the Board will need to decide whether to reappoint me as Treasurer for another 2\-year term
	+ KT: We should check webmaster and other positions as well
	+ the bylaws: [https://tei\-c.org/about/bylaws/](https://tei-c.org/about/bylaws/) e.g. IV.2, VI.2 sets explicitly 2years term for Board and Council.
	+ all: think on arguments for/against the changement of term until next meeting
* Membership campaign
	+ Individual members/institutional members
	+ What would be the best moment to rollout the campaign?
		- Beginning of the academic year.
		- Period: October 1st \- November 15th and at the call for papers
			* banner at the TEI website and message on the email list
		- How do we encourage institutional membership?
			* Chair of the Board writes an email
* Matters from Board/Council meeting
	+ Infrastructure Group Charges
	+ Project list
		- Update website (MS) \-\-done
		- sent form around: managed by CF
		- assign responsibilities: transformation process organized by CF
	+ Website content and responsibilities
		- discuss and assign responsibilities
		- note idea from MM about posting announcements to the website
		- HC to rewrite the Membership information
		- postponed to next meeting (CF)
* SIG
	+ How to handle SIGs which are not running smoothly?
		- refer to code of conduct (e.g. “please respond to emails”)
		- reference Council chair as contact point in case of problems.
		- Currently or 4 dormant groups:
			* libraries
			* education
			* music
			* tools
			* scholarly publishing
		- invite to revive on their pages
	+ What are the tasks of a SIG convenor?
		- Long report to Council chair for documentation and publication on the website
		- Send 3 bullet points for the slides in the MM
	+ Wiki for SIGs?
		- continue current practice
* TEI Journal\-\-Kathryn 
	+ We set up the new editing managers.
	+ KT did meeting with all 4 of them.
	+ GV recommends to rename the “managing editors” to “Editorial board”: (currently: <https://journals.openedition.org/jtei/276> , advisory board: <https://journals.openedition.org/jtei/305>)
	+ Board is willing to install Gimena as TEI\-board liaison
* Potential partnership of the TEI with FORCE11 FAIR data publication platform
	+ KT writing to DPOD a letter of support point out that we have currently no time to support this, but we are willing if this helps, and that GRR could be involved in a more formal way.
* Any Other Business
	+ Rahtz prize (payment, announcement who won the on TEI\-L, news)
		- **HC to pay**, contact via MS
		- announcements in TEI\-L (KT), news on website (MS)
	+ Report Member’s meeting \- 
		- make a PDF of the slides
		- put it to zenodo: <https://zenodo.org/record/3455810>
		- **CF: send** the zenodo\-link to TEI\-L
	+ Election results (send to the mailing lists)
