---
layout: page.njk
title: "TEI-C Board Meeting 2019-02-14"
---
# TEI-C Board Meeting 2019-02-14
via Zoom


Agenda
======


* Meeting Procedures and Other Announcements (All)
* Budgeting (Tim Naughton, 20\-30 minutes)
* Second ADHO server fail and status of TEI\-C.org (Luis, 10\-15 minutes)
* Updates ((We may not have time for the rest of the agenda, as we will keep the meeting to an hour.)
	+ ConfTool discussion from email and recommendations from Pip and Christiane
	+ JTEI and limited response\-\-next steps? (Kathryn)
* New Business
	+ Nominations and Elections Committee to be formed
	+ Call for Hosts\-\-ready to send?
* Request for letter of support from Marjorie Burghardt
	+ Nominations and Elections Committee to be formed
	+ Call for Hosts (We will handle this over email.)
* Any Other Business


Attending
---------


* Kathryn Tomasek (KT)
* Martina Scholger (MS)
* Tim Naughton (TN)
* Luis Meneses (LM)
* Christiane Fritze (CF)
* Georg Vogeler (GV)
* Hugh Cayless (HC)
* Pip Willcox (PW)


Absent
------


* Gimena del Rio Riande  (excused)


Action Items
------------


* TN: to send us the slides about the financial report
* MS: to look for the SIG\-convenor names
* KT: to write to TEI\-L about the lists downtime \[done]
* LM: recover mailing lists. Otherwise set up new board/council list \[done?], SIG lists will take longer
* LM: to set up a meeting with the Council and HumaNum on implications of the move to HumaNum
* NN: to set up a process for documentation and backup strategy
* PW: to contact TAPAS with regard to the nominations and elections committee
* KT: to send emails over the next couple of weeks to John Walsh with regard the jTEI  \[done]
* All: approve minutes of January meeting \[done]


Minutes
=======


Meeting Procedures and Other Announcements
------------------------------------------


* [Last meetings minutes](https://tei-c.org/board/board-tei-c-board-meeting-2019-01-17/) have bee approved by KT, GV, CF


Budgeting (Tim Naughton)
------------------------


* TN presents the financial status of the TEI\-C. He states a 70K USD loss for 2018, we overspent over budget. The reasons are a) additional *costs on travel* because of late reimbursement of the Victoria meeting 2017 in 2018 and especially high costs for the Tokyo meeting, b) *additional operational costs* for TAPAS for the financial year 2017, and c) some payment of membership fees was not in time
* The budget forecast of the financial year 2019 includes a) a one time payment for 2018 for the managing editor of the jTEI, and b) conservatively calculated membership and travel costs calculated conservative, based on 2018 real expenses.
* The Board discussed the change of the current payment system: a change to [wild apricot](https://www.wildapricot.com/) payment system would bring 20% savings and a functionality similar to [stripe](https://stripe.com/). The payments from Germany have not been tested. Wild apricot offers a 24h service desk. The Board decided to keep [paypal](https://www.paypal.com/) as it is inexpensive and allows the payment from Germany; and to eventually migrate into wild apricot.


ADHO Server fails
-----------------


* ADHO servers are still down (7 days tonight)
* Restored yet:
	+ guidelines via [https://jenkins.tei\-c.org/job/TEIP5/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/P5/release/doc/tei\-p5\-doc/en/html/index.html](https://jenkins.tei-c.org/job/TEIP5/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/P5/release/doc/tei-p5-doc/en/html/index.html)
	+ main site (somewhat, not all)
	+ Roma is up
	+ oxGarage via http://oxgarage2\.tei\-c.org
* LOST: 
	+ mailing list down, wiki, vault! jTEI management system?
* Discussion:
	+ HC: they have a disk failure, restore from backup will take time, maybe about a week, not even started yet
	+ LM asks why it does take so long as it is a real machine, not a virtual one.
	+ LM: Why did this happen a second time? → Old version of php (deprecated since 2011\)
	+ KT: include Christof Schöch into move to HumaNum?
		- LM: not useful to be in touch with Christoph at ADHO now; too much on his plate
	+ MS: how to involve Council in move?
		- GV: proposes to set up a meeting to know for the Council what does the move mean to the Council
		- LM, MS, Peter Stadler, Raff Viglianti etc. will set up a meeting on the implications of the move to HumaNum: there will be a **meeting with Council, Luis and HumaNum**
	+ LM: what do wo do if we do not get the services back, like the vault? What about the mailing list?
		- GV: documentation! backup strategies. Should we start a documentation process? Separate the risks, start a backup process of our own; get access to DNS (for redirection)
		- LM: **establish a process for documentation and backup strategy**, yes.
		- GoogleDrive as best start for documentation; begin with inventory
		- HC: **set up our own system/process for our own backups**
		- LM: try to get hold on adho\-backups of TEI site
	+ MS: question about the mailing lists:
		- tei\-l at Brown University
		- tei\-board, SIG\-lists, council\-list, combine board/council\-list at ADHO
		- LM to **set up new board/council/combined list**
		- MS: has a list of SIG convenors for separate information on SIG\-list


Updates
-------


### Wild Apricot


* Laurent trained KT and PW, take possible [GDPR](https://ec.europa.eu/commission/priorities/justice-and-fundamental-rights/data-protection/2018-reform-eu-data-protection-rules_en) issues into account


### ConfTool


* The Board is aware of possible GDPR issues. The **Organizers of TEI2019 have taken note and try to solve them for the TEI2019**.


### JTEI


* The editors team of the JTEI is about to be replaced. Anne Baillot reports on process about workflow evaluation/analysis. KT has not heard anything from John Walsh. She will **sends emails over the next couple of weeks to him.**


New Business
------------


### Nominations and Elections Committee


* Member of the nomination and election committee are the following persons: the webmaster, someone from council whereby KT nominated LM, PW, CF? and GR?. HC will be part of the committee as Council representative. PW contacts TAPAS for a TAPAS representative.
* Check for documentation in the wiki on archive.org: [http://web.archive.org/web/20181027022715/http://www.tei\-c.org/release/doc/tei\-p5\-doc/en/html/index.html](http://web.archive.org/web/20181027022715/http://www.tei-c.org/release/doc/tei-p5-doc/en/html/index.html)  \=\> [http://web.archive.org/web/20181127111927/https://wiki.tei\-c.org/index.php/Main\_Page](http://web.archive.org/web/20181127111927/https://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/Main_Page)
* [https://web.archive.org/web/20190127084533/https://wiki.tei\-c.org/index.php/Main\_Page](https://web.archive.org/web/20190127084533/https://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/Main_Page)
* Vault: [https://web.archive.org/web/20180621204644/http://www.tei\-c.org/Vault/](https://web.archive.org/web/20180621204644/http://www.tei-c.org/Vault/)
* Forms are in the Google Folder


### Call for Hosts


* Postponed


Other Business
--------------


* No other business


Date of next meeting
--------------------


14 March 2019\. 8 PsT, 11 EsT, 5 pm CET