---
layout: page.njk
title: "TEI-C Board Meeting 2019-10-10"
---
# TEI-C Board Meeting 2019-10-10
via Zoom


Agenda
======


* Meeting Procedures and Other Announcements
	+ Approval of minutes from September F2F meeting
* Updates
	+ Conference documentation (GV)
	+ Membership Campaign and Institutional Membership (HC)
	+ Ticketing System for Board actions (LM)
	+ Roles in the Council (MS)
	+ Changing election terms for Board and Council Members
	+ Website: structure and content (HC)
	+ Internationalization strategy (GRR)
	+ Strategic budget allocations (KT)
	+ SIGs
	+ TEI Journal (KT)
	+ TAPAS Support / TEI Repository (KT)
	+ FORCE 11 partnership (GRR)
	+ Announcement of the Rahtz Price (KT)
* Any Other Business
	+ [MediaWiki TEI](https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Extension:TEI) extension (GRR)


Attending
=========


* Kathryn Tomasek (KT)
* Georg Vogeler (GV)
* Pip Willcox (PW)
* Martina Scholger (MS)
* Christiane Fritze (CF)


Absent
======


* Hugh Cayless (HC)
* Luis Meneses (LM)
* Gimena del Rio Riande (GRR)


Action items
============


* CF to finish minutes of the F2F meeting
* GV to do the conference documentation
* KT to contact “Virtual” people on the amendment of the bylaws
* KT to draft proposal to change terms for Council and Board to three years


Minutes
=======


* Meeting Procedures and Other Announcements
	+ Approval of [minutes from September F2F meeting](https://tei-c.org/board/board-tei-c-face-to-face-board-meeting-2019-09-20/)
* Updates
	+ Conference documentation (GV)
		- Still in progress
	+ Membership Campaign and Institutional Membership (HC)
		- Table until November since Hugh is not available.
	+ Ticketing System for Board actions (LM)
		- Table until November since Luis is traveling.
	+ Roles in the Council (MS)
		- talking about it on Tuesday
	+ Changing election terms for Board and Council Members
		- changing the election term to 3 years
			* all in favour
			* one of the reasons is that it needs about 1 year to be productive within the Council
			* not sure how this could work out: 
				+ 4\-4\-3 (for 11 posts)
				+ this year 6 open positions
				+ next year 5 open positions
				+ Council will think about it until the next Board meeting
			* It is really problematic to define roles within the council, proposal on next meeting.
	+ Will need to change bylaws in order to do this
		- KT: involves consulting the Members, holding some periods for responses from membership, responses from Board
		- PW: would need a proposal to state our case
		- MS: Argument in favour
		- Article VII of the bylaws 
			* [https://tei\-c.org/about/bylaws/](https://tei-c.org/about/bylaws/):
			“These Bylaws may be repealed or amended or new Bylaws adopted by affirmative vote of **at least one\-half of the Members of Consortium voting in person or by proxy at a regular or Special Meeting**, or, to the extent permitted by law and not in conflict with the Articles of Incorporation, by **a true majority of the Board of Directors** then in office acting at a regular or Special Meeting, or by unanimous written consent of the Board.”
			* which law “Articles of Incorporation”? US law? State of Virginia?
			* **KT: contact Virtual to clarify** the possibilities.
			* GV: It has to be clarified what amendments need to be agreed by the Members.
			* PW: suggests a period of consultation to demonstrate our willing to involve the community in these decisions.
			* CF: be aware that members voting might have to be in person and, therefore, could not happen before autumn 2020\.
			* KT: Draft proposal to change terms for Council and Board to three years, rationale pro and con, send the arguments to TEI\-L, open to comments for six weeks, to the membership together with the minutes from the F2F meeting in Graz.
			* PW: separate documents for Board and Council, and allow Council to lead
			* MS: From Council, Elli, James, and Martina are working on the proposal, joined by PW
			* KT and PW piggyback on the council proposal, KT starts a draft
				+ for the Council there will be more information for the election call to consider to be on the Council (time to spend)
			* timeline: we need decision at latest in the February meeting when election preparation starts. \-\-\> Early December we have to start the consultation (6 weeks)
				+ MS can start the work on the proposal only after next week
				+ PW: that looks possible
	+ Website: structure and content (HC)
		- Table until November since Hugh is not available.
	+ Internationalization strategy (GRR)
		- Table until November since Gimena is not available.
	+ Strategic budget allocations
		- Table until November for lack of time today.
	+ SIGs
	+ TEI Journal (KT)
		- In progress, to be reported on in November.
	+ TAPAS Support / TEI Repository
		- Table until November for lack of time today.
	+ FORCE 11 partnership
		- Table until November since Gimena is not available.
	+ Announcement of the Rahtz Price
		- Done. :\-)
* Any Other Business
	+ [MediaWiki TEI](https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Extension:TEI) extension (GRR)


Date of next Meeting
====================


14 November 2019
* maybe apologies from Pip because of a conference in Birmingham at this time.
