---
layout: page.njk
title: "TEI-C Board Meeting 2019-03-14"
---
# TEI-C Board Meeting 2019-03-14
via Zoom


Agenda
======


* Meeting Procedures and Other Announcements
* Updates
	+ Conference (Georg, Gimena, Martina)
		- Conftool
		- Webpage Draft [https://graz\-2019\.tei\-c.org](https://graz-2019.tei-c.org)
		- CfP Draft
	+ Nominations and Elections (Pip)
	+ Formation of Infrastructure Working Group (Martina, Luis)
		- Status of webpage, wiki, journal instances, email lists (Luis)
		- Status of meeting organisation between Luis, council and HumaNum
		- Status of backup strategy, and documentation
	+ jTEI (Kathryn)
		- Anne’s proposal
		- John will join us in April
		- Involvement of editorial board\-\-awaiting update from John about terms/replacements for two members
		- Should we include the Journal General Editor as a non\-voting member of the Board, as is the case with the Treasurer and the Council Chair?
	+ Call for hosts (Kathryn will distribute)
	+ Rahtz Prize Committee (Kathryn)
* Any Other Business
	+ From the January Agenda: Keeping list of TEI workshops up to date\-\-work on it between now and the next meeting
	+ From the January Agenda: Decision on the discussion of internationalization?


Attending
---------


* Kathryn Tomasek (KT)
* Christiane Fritze (CF)
* Gimena del Rio Riande (GRR)
* Hugh Cayless (HC)
* Luis Meneses (LM)
* Martina Scholger (MS)


Absent
------


* Georg Vogeler (GV)
* Pip Willcox (PW)


Action Items
------------


* MS\-\-schedule the next meeting of the infrastructure group \[done]
* KT\-\-write to Karina van Dalen\-Oskam, with copies to Luis and Martina on getting control of the DNS
* KT\-\-forward to the Board subsequent emails between Anne and KT about the four managing editors idea
* KT\-\-contact Martina, Sabine, and Stefan about call for nominations for Rahtz Prize


Minutes
=======


* Meeting Procedures and Other Announcements
	+ [February minutes](https://tei-c.org/board/board-tei-c-board-meeting-2019-02-14/) approved by GRR via email, approved by KT and CF
* Updates
	+ Conference (Georg, Gimena, Martina)
		- Conftool <https://www.conftool.net/tei2019/>. 
			* data: could not be transferred due to GDPR issues, but new registration allows to keep it (explicit question during registration)
			* at the conftool login page is a note that every user has to create a new account
		- Webpage [https://graz\-2019\.tei\-c.org](https://graz-2019.tei-c.org)
			* is online
			* MS: more content to come
			* KT: the pictures are beautiful!
		- CfP draft
	+ Nominations and Elections (Pip)
		- postpone the discussion
	+ Formation of Infrastructure Working Group (Martina, Luis)
		- Status of webpage, wiki, journal instances (Luis)
		- status update:
			* alternate servers have been setup for most services
			* ingestion part of jTEI is missing
			* Luis is talking about it with Martin and Ron
			* after 35 days of downtime ADHO doesn’t seem to have a clear strategy on how to restore our services
			* Infrastructure Group was created 
				+ First call 3 weeks ago
				+ Luis, Hugh, Martina, Peter, Laurent, Martin Holmes, and some more
				+ until now no new call \-\> MS will schedule  next meeting next week or the week after
					- making a plan
					- plan also to announce to list on status after call happens
				+ created an inventory of services
				+ Hugh’s colleague, Sam Huskey at Oklahoma University has offered to host a mirrored site or some arrangement that duplicates the HumaNum instance
				+ announcement on TEI\-L list, Facebook, Twitter about the current status of service recovery
				+ how often should we post to the list about the services? when the new group meets, when something of the infrastructure changes
				+ control over the DNS: this is holding us back
				+ When the TEI\-C (KT) sends something formal to Karina van Dalen\-Oskam (ADHO) than we get the DNS control


* + jTEI (Kathryn)
		- Anne’s proposal
			* Board of “4 managing editors with a primus inter pares acting as editor in chief for 1 year”
			* Workflow document (OJS transition)
		- John will join us in April 4
		- Involvement of editorial board\-\-awaiting update from John about terms/replacements for two members
		- Should we include the Journal General Editor as a non\-voting member of the Board, as is the case with the Treasurer and the Council Chair?
			* important to maintain formal relationship between General Editor and Board of Directors, perhaps a role for a member of the Board
			* at least a more formal relationship between the board of editors of jTEI and the TEI BOD
	+ Call for hosts \-\- Kathryn will distribute
		- Info of the wiki
		- Deadline: 15 May 2019
		- Acceptance 15 July 2019
	+ Rahtz Prize Committee (Kathryn)
		- KT is in touch with MS about the call for nominations
		- Decision by 15 May / notification 15 July 2019
		- MS: we should send the announcement right soon
		- MS asked the winners of the price of last year: Sabine Seifert and Stefan Dumont would be part of the Rahtz Prize committee
		- MS added a folder for 2019 in the Google Drive
* Any Other Business


Date of next meeting
====================


* April 11 2019
