---
layout: page.njk
title: "TEI-C Board Meeting 2019-06-13"
---
# TEI-C Board Meeting 2019-06-13
via Zoom


Agenda
======


* Meeting Procedures and Other Announcements
* Updates
	+ Conference (Georg, Gimena)
	+ Nominations and Elections Committee (KT for Pip)
	+ Call for Hosts (KT)
	+ Infrastructure Working Group (Luis)
	+ JTEI (KT)
* Procedures for updating the website
* Policy on a travel bursary for disadvantaged conference participants
* Any Other Business


Attending
=========


* Kathryn Tomasek (KT)
* Gimena del Rio Riande (GRR)
* Luis Meneses (LM)
* Georg Vogeler (GV)


Apologies
=========


* Christiane Fritze (CF)
* Hugh Cayless (HC)
* Pip Willcox (PW)
* Martina Scholger (MS)


Action items
============


* Contact past hosts for JTEI: KT Kiyonori\-\-done, LM Martin, GV Claudia\-\-done.
* KT to respond to current candidate for JTEI.
* KT to email Board about changing date of July meeting to the 4th.
* ALL to identify possible candidates for JTEI management team and contact them.
* KT to email about changing the date for next meeting


Minutes
=======


* Meeting Procedures and Other Announcements
	+ Approval of [May minutes](https://tei-c.org/board/board-tei-c-board-meeting-2019-05-09/): KT, GV, GRR
* Updates
	+ Conference (GRR \& GV)
		- reviews are complete (249 reviews)
			* 83 submissions
			* 33 long papers
			* 25 short papers
			* 12 posters\-\-which is only a few: Is the community encouraging this sufficiently?
			* 4 workshops
			* 5 demonstrations
		- discussion open to Program Committee
		- Board Tuesday morning
		- SIG Tuesday afternoon
		- Joint Board and Council meeting and Dinner Monday afternoon
		- Business meeting Thursday afternoon
		- Conference Dinner: Wednesday
	+ Nominations and Elections Committee (GRR \& LM)
		- works smoothly
	+ Call for hosts (KT)
		- There are possible candidates, call closes on Saturday
		- With regard to Gimena’s possibly hosting 
			* She’s interested in hosting for 2021 or 2022, but preferably 2021
			* Do something about TEI at the national conference in 2020 (workshop?).
			* Work on internationalization of TEI is proceeding in Argentina.
			* Need for more work and materials on TEI in Spanish.
			* Work with Susanna Alles (TTHub) and Revista Humanidades Digitales continues.
			* Gimena and Luis are going to Triangle Sci (Chapel Hill, North Carolina) with Hugh Cayless, Helena Bermúedes, Kyonori and Martina Scholger in October. They will work on translation issues and challenges on standards like the TEI.
	+ Infrastructure Working Group (LM \& MS)
		- moving forward
		- still working on MOU with HumaNum
		- all services are running at this point.
		- only thing still running on ADHO is mailing lists
		- This is a great achievement and we celebrate.
	+ JTEI (KT)
		- We have received one application/proposal for the team of managing editors for the Journal of the TEI.
		- Need to recruit:
			* Look through attendance lists from conferences, members’ list, possibly mailing list subscriptions.
			* Tokyo: KT to ask Kyonori
			* Victoria: LM to ask Martin
			* Vienna: GV to ask Claudia
* Procedures for updating the website\-\-request from Christiane that was tabled until July meeting
* Policy on a travel bursary for disadvantaged conference participants\-\-no longer urgent
* Any Other Business → table for July
	+ Request for TEI contribution on Digital Bible studies to be forwarded to Joel Kalvesmaki (KT)


* 


Date of next Meeting
====================


04 July 2019