---
layout: page.njk
title: "TEI-C Board Meeting 2019-01-17"
---
# TEI-C Board Meeting 2019-01-17
via Zoom


Agenda
======


* Meeting Procedures and Other Announcements
* Roles this year
* Updates
	+ Shift from ADHO servers to HumaNum\-\-Luis
	+ Expanding Wild Apricot subscription to next level\-\-Hugh
* The Year Ahead
	+ Regular Board Business
		- Election
		- Rahtz Prize
		- Call for Hosts
	+ jTEI
		- Question of terms as part of regular business of the Board
	+ Other Issues for the Year
		- Continue discussion of Board's role in internationalization?
		- Any other ideas


Attending
---------


* Kathryn Tomasek (KT)
* Martina Scholger (MS)
* Gimena del Rio Riande (GRR)
* Luis Meneses (LM)
* Hugh Cayless (HC)
* Pip Willcox (PW)


Absent
------


* Georg Vogeler (GV) (excused)
* Christiane Fritze (CF) (excused)


Action Items
------------


* KT: circulate call for hosts to Board
* KT: contact John Walsh and Anne Baillot regarding process for finding new people for their roles \[done]
* KT: contact Pip (pip.willcox@nationalarchives.gov.uk) and Laurent about Wild Apricot training with Hugh as backup
* LM: switch membership contact to Pip’s new address


Minutes
=======


Meeting Procedures and Other Announcements
------------------------------------------


* [Last meetings minutes](https://tei-c.org/board/tei-c-board-meeting-2018-12-18/) approval via mail: KT, GV
* Welcome to new Board members


Roles this year
---------------


* Chair\-\-Kathryn Tomasek
* Secretary\-\-Christiane Fritze
* Membership Coordinator\-\-Pip Willcox
* Conference Liaison\-\-Gimena del Rio Riande


Updates
-------


* Shift from ADHO servers to HumaNum\-\-Luis
	+ Luis has received credentials from HumaNum, is working on exporting TEI\-C files; process should be complete for WordPress portion of the website by mid\-February; this is a test for the rest of the content
* Expanding Wild Apricot subscription to next level\-\-Hugh
	+ Subscription has been upgraded to “Professional”\-\-up to 2,000 contacts, so we can add workshop participants, run membership drive, etc


The Year Ahead
--------------


* + Regular Board Business
		- Election\-\-Nominating and elections committee will need to be selected from new members, as KT and GV terms are ending
		- Rahtz Prize\-\-Martina, one of the previous group of recipients, Kathryn
		- Call for Hosts\-\-to be handled over email
	+ JTEI
		- Question of terms as part of regular business of the Board
		- The Board notes its ongoing gratitude to John Walsh and Anne Baillot for their generosity in sharing their expertise and giving their time over the years to the Journal and the community. We are also grateful for the long lead\-time they have given us expressing their wishes to stand down from their positions. We approve the following actions and timeline:
			* Mid January: Outline plans to JW and AB for their comments and approval
			* Mid January: Ask JW and AB to provide bullet\-point summaries of their respective tasks; and to suggest essential skills for their respective positions
			* Mid February: JW and AB to deliver these to the Board
			* End February: advertise posts together to the List
			* End March: application deadline
			* Mid April: Board decision
			* April \- July: AB to work with her successor, with 1 \- 2 online/in person handover\-training meetings, and copied into all email correspondence
			* April \- September: JW to work with his successor, with 1 \- 2 online/in person handover\-training meetings, and copied into all email correspondence
	+ Other Issues for the Year
		- Continue discussion of Board's role in internationalization?
			* TEI workshop last year in Argentina with GRR and Susanna Alles, working on translations:  [https://tthub.io/tei\-en\-espanol/](https://tthub.io/tei-en-espanol/) and [https://tthub.io/2018/11/11/taller\-hackathon\-buenos\-aires/](https://tthub.io/2018/11/11/taller-hackathon-buenos-aires/)
			* Lots of concern regarding workflow for keeping translations up to date, motivating people to send in new translations and corrections.
			* Martina reports that Martin Holmes has begun to implement Japanese translation. The Board notes its gratitude to MH for his ongoing contributions to the community.
		- Any other ideas
			* + Tim Naughton to talk Board about budgeting in February meeting
				+ Consider instituting a lifetime contribution award


* + -


Other Business
--------------


* Keeping list of TEI workshops up to date\-\-work on it between now and the next meeting


Date of next meeting
--------------------


* 14 February 2019, same time as January (subsequent months will be 2 hours later)
