---
layout: page.njk
title: "TEI-C Board Meeting 2019-12-12"
---
# TEI-C Board Meeting 2019-12-12
via Zoom


Agenda
======


* Meeting Procedures and Other Announcements
	+ Approval of minutes from October meeting
* Updates
	+ Conference documentation (GV)
	+ Membership Campaign and Institutional Membership (HC)
	+ Ticketing System for Board actions (LM)
	+ Roles in the Council (MS)
	+ Changing election terms for Board and Council Members
	+ Website: structure and content (HC)
	+ Internationalization strategy (GRR)
	+ Strategic budget allocations
	+ SIGs
	+ TEI Journal (KT)
	+ TAPAS Support / TEI Repository
	+ FORCE 11 partnership
	+ Announcement of the Rahtz Price
* New Business
	+ [MediaWiki TEI](https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Extension:TEI) extension (GRR)
	+ Contributor Membership for the Akademie der Wissenschaften in Hamburg (GRR)
* Any Other Business
	+ Louis has expressed an interest in stepping down as webmaster, so we need to begin thinking about finding a replacement
	+ Farewell to Georg


Attending
=========


* Kathryn Tomasek (KT)
* Georg Vogeler (GV)
* Pip Willcox (PW)
* Martina Scholger
* Christiane Fritze
* Hugh Cayless (HC)
* Gimena del Rio Riande (GRR)
* James Cummings (JC)


Absent
======


* Luis Meneses (LM)


Action items
============


* GV contact Luis to set up new conference documentation on webpage
* HC needs to look through membership database to get info for KT in advance of January membership campaign before January 9
* LM to grant access to HumaNum server as well as webpage for Infrastructure Group
* KT to consult with Virtual on plans to change by\-laws
* KT to send around proposal for extending Board terms to three years by Monday 16 December


Minutes
=======


* Meeting Procedures and Other Announcements
	+ Approval of [minutes from October Meeting](https://tei-c.org/board/board-tei-c-board-meeting-2019-10-10/)
		- Approved: KT, GRR, PW
	+ There was no November meeting, as we did not have a quorum
* Updates
	+ Conference documentation (GV)
		- I would delete the deprecated older versions as mentioned in the new documentation before end of the year, and create one public document at [https://tei\-c.org/meetings/documentation](https://tei-c.org/meetings/documentation) (@Luis, can you set this page up and link it into menu under Activities/Annual Meeting?)\-\-**GV** action item to contact Luis
		- Reminder to next Board: "
			* **\-9,5M**: Board: Nominate PC chair, nominate LOC liaison
			* **\-9M**: PC\-Chair: set up [PC](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1bW3aosLVF1MVfbIntvAjupxgBzLbIROJafLjC5zGHqE/edit#heading=h.7lfppx79n4s2)"\=\> Action Item **Secretary**: Put this on Agenda
	+ Membership Campaign and Institutional Membership (HC)
		- * **HC** needs to look through membership database to get info for KT in advance of January membership campaign before January 9
			* also relaunch of individual membership drive in January\-\-requires login access to server\-\-MS has reminded Luis \=\> Action Item **LM**: Grant Admin Server to Infrastructure Group
			* This more general access to HumaNum server is crucial to Infrastructure Group
	+ Ticketing System for Board actions (LM)\-\-table
	+ Roles in the Council (MS)
		- election terms
	+ Changing election terms for Board and Council Members
		- * Changing board terms: KT will liaise with Virtual again, before our next meeting.
			* Include Point 3\-5 in the Mail to members for justification
			* Send around informative Mail to members in January
			* Action item board: Decide in mode of transition (point 7\), maybe ask somebody to stay a year longer in council
			* **KT** to send around a proposal for extending board terms to three years as well by this weekend
	+ Website: structure and content (HC)
		- is a big deal
		- MS and HC, plan: going to set up a **copy** of the TEI website in just a standard wordpress install, move all the data over there, use that as a basis for figuring out how it may work. This has not happened yet. Right now we cannot change the website structure because of a broken wordpress plugin. it was needed for a visual parody from the old to the new website.
		- A working group is needed for that.
		- KT: suggest to combine the website improvement with finding a new webmaster?
		- MS to handle login for CF. THANKS!
		- MS suggest to install a plugin to export the data and use the installation of Peter Stadler. MS would ask him first.
		- Timeline? Maybe done before January 2020 Meeting
	+ Internationalization strategy (GRR)
		- Internationalization Working Group (GRR, HC, MS, Kiyonori Nagasaki, et al.) met at Scholarly Communication Institute at Research Triangle, NC, in October 2019
		- Discussion included work on different language landing sites for the Guidelines, glossary, repository of examples tool development, microgrant program for training materials in different languages or pay translators
		- Andrew W. Mellon Foundation has invited a proposal in advance of possible invitation to apply for funding in spring 2020, up to 250\.000 USD
		- This speaks to the urgent need for revision of website so as to be able to support this kind of openness beyond the English.
	+ Strategic budget allocations
		- tabled as priority topic in January 2020 meeting
	+ SIGs
		- Methods of dealing with lacking leadership. As for the ontology SIG problem is solved by adding an additional convener (Christopher Pollin)
	+ TEI Journal (KT)
		- John Walsh has stepped down as General Editor as of end of 2019
		- We will change masthead to list Joel Kalvesmaki, Tanja Wissik, Pietro Liuzzo, Tiago Sousa Garcia as Editors because they do more than managing editors\-\-overseeing the entire review process
		- We need to think about budget for copy editors\-\-Will be using Joel Kalvesmaki’s network for this\-\-They charge USD 35\-40 per hour, estimated 12 hours per article \= ca 500 USD per article; 
			* Copy\-editing would include diligence on citations
			* Discussion: This seems like a lot of hours; need to go back to the editors; trial for an issue (e.g. Tokyo issue currently in process)
		- KT to email HC with cc to Joel Kalvesmaki about how to add copy editors as employees of the TEI
	+ TAPAS Support / TEI Repository
		- tabled
	+ FORCE 11 partnership
		- tabled
	+ Announcement of the Rahtz Price
		- tabled
* New Business
	+ [MediaWiki TEI](https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Extension:TEI) extension (GRR)
		- tabled
	+ Contributor Membership for the Akademie der Wissenschaften in Hamburg (GRR)
		- Action by board necessary? \=\> **KT** and **HC** to handle
* Any Other Business
	+ Louis has expressed an interest in stepping down as webmaster, so we need to begin thinking about finding a replacement
	+ Farewell to Georg


Date of next Meeting
====================


  9 January 2020