---
layout: page.njk
title: "Chair's report for Tuesday February 10, 2009"
---
# Chair's report for Tuesday February 10, 2009







Report for Tuesday, February 10, 2009 13:00
 (Europe/London)

Daniel O'Donnell



Chair's Report
 
 There has been a fair bit of small business since our last meeting, mostly
 conducted as part of other (ad hoc) committees.


* Publication of P5
	+ Copies of P5 were distributed to membership, major contributors,
	 and members and subscribers who took advantage of our offer to
	 purchase for them at cost at the end of 2008; invoices have not yet
	 been sent to those who purchased as part of our bulk rate.
	+ Webstore for print on demand is in final stages of completion.
	 Delay has been due to staffing\-\-I've been working on it around other
	 things\-\-and questions of price\-per\-volume cost (which has dropped
	 sllghtly from initial estimate) and method for indicating membership
	 status. Hope to complete final paperwork by end of this week (keeps
	 getting bumped by other deadlines).
* Mellon Grant
	+ Extension successfully requested. Project is now scheduled to be
	 completed by October 31, 2009, with final receipts due by December
	 31\.
* Ad hoc credit card and administration committee
	+ We seem to have partially resolved the question of the
	 disbursement of administrative funds in Nancy\-\-there was a
	 misunderstanding at the last meeting concerning what is really
	 internal book\-keeping at Nancy
	+ Have not made any progress on looking into cost savings at
	 Virginia or Nancy in order to fund a central administrators
	+ Put off discussion of Credit Card acceptance for the period at
	 which we send invoices out to members as this seemed to introduce
	 unnecessarily complications at a time\-sensitive moment. VL and DPOD
	 are going to return to the issue in March in order to offer the
	 service to members. This will allow us to experiment with the system
	 on a smaller group of people than the membership database, and
	 hopefully capture some contributions from individuals in projects
	 that are not able to contribute as members this year.
	+ From VR and DPOD's perspective, the second half of 2009 should
	 involve converting adding member information to the shopping cart
	 database so that it would be ready for use for member invoicing in
	 2010\. This would also allow real time membership information for the
	 proposed TEI Tite benefit.
* Ad hoc conference discount committee (VL, DPOD, CW, and Kevin Hawkins)
	+ Put together last meeting to look into whether we should offer
	 free or discounted attendance to conference portion of members
	 meeting
	+ In brief email discussion, decided to offer discount rather than
	 free admittance. Since the final conference fee is still to be set,
	 we phrased this as a minimum cash value in letter to members rather
	 than fixed percent.
* Conference and Members' Meeting
	+ Initial core committee has met (Ray Siemens chair; Kevin Hawkins
	 local organiser, SS, board rep, DPOD ex officio)
	+ Planning to add external members to committee (list of three
	 possible names is now being followed up on)
	+ Discussed refereeing and theme for conference: Would like to
	 expand reviewers to beyond conference committee; leave some space
	 for late\-breaking research
	+ Plan like to purchase and host licence for conftool software (Syd
	 has installed and used it before, we hope he will be willing to help
	 us again with it). This proved extremely useful last year
	+ Still working on changes to fee/funding model
* Outreach, Collaborations, and Invitations
	+ Digital Medievalist will be holding a symposium in Lyon
	 immediately before TEI Council Meeting (March 31st)
	+ We've agreed to "cosponsor" Balisage\-\-involves adding information
	 to website and sending message to list in exchange for member
	 discount
	+ Contacted by Fabio Ciotti regarding permission to issue second and
	 revised edition of TEI Lite translation (see agenda item for further
	 discussion)
	+ Contacted by Christoph Anderl regarding participation in
	 "Conference on Chinese manuscripts and text mark\-up"\-\-have written
	 back to hear about what kind of participation, dates, and
	 possibility of funding.





