---
layout: page.njk
title: "Minutes of the TEI-C Board Meeting, King's College London, 9 November 2008"
---
# Minutes of the TEI-C Board Meeting, King's College London, 9 November 2008



 TEI\-C Board of Directors meeting, 9 Nov 2008
 Meeting held at King's College London
 Chris Ruotolo
 
 Certification of the meeting
* + The meeting was certified at 09:05 GMT, with the following members present:
	 Julia Flanders (JF), John Lavagnino (JL), Veronika Lux (VL), Daniel
	 O'Donnell (DO), Daniel Pitti (DP), Sebastian Rahtz (SR), Laurent Romary
	 (LR), Chris Ruotolo (CR), Susan Schreibman (SS), and Ray Siemens (RS).


Approval of agenda
* + The meeting agenda was approved.


Review of minutes from previous meeting
* + The minutes from the last conference call were approved.


Appointment of officers
* + Daniel O'Donnell was reappointed as Chair. Julia Flanders stepped down as
	 Vice\-Chair, and Susan Schreibman was appointed as the new Vice\-Chair. Chris
	 Ruotolo was reappointed as Secretary. Daniel Pitti was reappointed as
	 Treasurer. Veronika was reappointed as Executive Director. LR will continue
	 to serve as Council Chair and Board representative to the Council.
	 
	 The Board thanked all of the incoming and outgoing officers for their
	 service.


Standing committees and representatives
* + Nominating committee: JF agreed to serve. She will ask Christian Wittern to
	 chair the committee, and will ask Malte Rehbein to serve as the external
	 member.
	 
	 Web committee: CR will continue to chair.
	 
	 Members' Meeting program committee: RS will serve as program organizer. SS
	 and DO will serve on the committee and advise. Kevin Hawkins will be the local
	 organizer. The committee will bring in others as necessary.
	 
	 SIG coordinator: SS will continue to serve.


Brainstorming session
* + The group engaged in a brainstorming exercise around setting goals and
	 priorities. Below is an outline of the main categories and issues that
	 emerged:
		- Grants and projects
			* Giving grants, e.g. microgrants for SIGs
			* Receiving grants \-\- developing "revenue\-positive"
			 activities
		- Training and TEI promotion
			* Written training materials: "Getting started with TEI", case
			 studies, etc.
			* In\-person training: more "TEI Days", list of experts available
			 for training, etc.
			* Create "Powered by TEI" badge
		- Restructuring
			* Makeup of Board and Council
			* Term length for Board and Council
			* Calendar issues
		- Membership
			* Increase size of the membership
			* Increase the value of membership
			* Improve opportunities for individuals to interact with the TEI
			* Liaise more broadly with other organizations
		- SIGs
			* "Meta" questions \-\- what are they? where are they going?
			* Specific questions about how to work with SIGs
		- TEI publishing
			* Publish posters and papers from Members' Meeting
			* Develop a TEI publishing arm?
		- Services and Guidelines
			* Specific discipline\-oriented customizations
			* Articulate road map for the Guidelines
			* Improve Roma
			* Localization of the Guidelines
		- Website
			* Implementation issues
				+ Internationalization and localization
				+ Improved access to history/Vault
				+ News/RSS feed
				+ Search function
			* Content
				+ Promote TEI achievements (e.g. ISO work)
				+ Feature successful projects
		- Business processes
			* Enable online payment
			* Improve budgeting process
			* Change conference funding to base plus per capita
			* Go to per diem reimbursement


Reports
* + Membership Report (VL)
		- * We have 97 institutional members, and 20 subscribers. Subscribers are
			 a problem, because it takes a lot of effort to invoice them all, but
			 only about a third of them maintain their membership from year to
			 year. Some subscribers were added as part of registration for the
			 Members' Meeting, and are surprised to get an invoice the following
			 year.
			 
			 DP suggested a better method for keeping track of non\-paying members.
			 Streamlining membership and accounting functions will be discussed
			 in the second brainstorming session.Treasurer's Report (DP)
		- * DP has tried to ensure that the TEI has a cushion of $5\-$10K. He is
			 concerned that the current state of the economy might lead to
			 membership cancellations. DP projects about $10\-$15K that we will be
			 able to spend; recommends that we spend it in the last 6 months of
			 the next year. DO pointed out the need to account for $10 to $12K
			 for printing the P5 Guidelines.
			 
			 JF suggested that we need a financial model, to establish how much
			 money we have separate from annual income and outflow. How do we
			 know if we have a nest egg? We will discuss further later on.Council Report (LR)
		- * The Council is working out how to delegate work to the SIGs, and to
			 be more responsive to their requests. LR feels that the two year
			 term for a Council member is too brief, given the amount of
			 technical information to master.
			 
			 LR strongly advocates for two Council meetings each year, perhaps at
			 the end of March and the end of September. Possible locations for
			 2009 are Lyon and Dublin. Both locations are central to most Council
			 members, and close to major airports. LR also suggests a meeting in
			 the U.S. in early 2010, tied to a one\-day seminar for libraries,
			 perhaps hosted in Virginia.Host reports
		- * Lethbridge
				+ - DO had preliminary conversations at Lethbridge, to see if
					 they would be willing to handle administrative aspects of
					 the finances. DP and DO will continue to pursue the
					 possibility.Brown
				+ - The WWP has a grant from the NEH to do TEI training, and has
					 put in a lot of effort to outreach. Syd Bauman has been
					 working with the TEI in Libraries group out of the DLF.Nancy
				+ - Nancy continued to handle TEI administration, including
					 membership services. They are continuing to work on building
					 a network of French TEI users, and are thinking about
					 hosting an upcoming Council meeting. They're also doing some
					 TEI technical work (e.g. the sanity checker for Roma).Oxford
				+ - Oxford has done a lot of work on Roma and other tools. Large
					 projects include manuscript description, which pays for all
					 of James Cummings' time, internationalization, and
					 consultancy with ISO. LB was a paid envoy to Morocco and
					 Russia. Oxford isn't sure who will be the host rep for next
					 year. It's possible that Lethbridge could take one of the
					 four host seats on the Board. To be discussed later.Virginia
				+ DP continues to manage the TEI finances. CR and Shayne
				 Brandon continue to manage and maintain the website. SB
				 migrated Roma to the Virginia servers.Viral Marketing Report (RS)
		- JF requested more fine\-grained information about pages viewed, which
		 would help us understand the spikes in the data. RS said that the
		 final report will have full data in the appendix, and can be
		 circulated to the Board. He suggested that the Board members be added to
		 Google Analytics for the site. RS investigated the traffic spike in
		 mid\-August, and noted that it's almost exclusively from China. It
		 may be due to a Chinese\-related project launched by Washington
		 University around that time.


Brainstorming Processes
* + DO noted that the Board has made several changes in the past couple of years,
	 including establishing working groups, and going to quarterly conference
	 calls. What other changes do we need to make to keep things moving forward?
	 The Board brainstormed possibilities for improving Board communication and
	 efficiency, and came up with the following proposal:
		- Scheduling
			* More frequent meetings – every other month
			* Schedule 12 meetings, 4 months in advance
			* Choose the optimal hour given the members’ time zones, then
			 schedule meetings on alternating days of the week
			* Cancel any meeting where not 90 minutes worth of agenda items
			* Aim for 6 "formal" meetings per year, with the other dates available for informal
			 meetings
		- Meeting procedures
			* Teleconferences plus BaseCamp for documentation
			* More formal agendas
		- Conducting business
			* Formal process by which business gets considered: there must
			 be a proposal
			* Formal location for working documents – e.g. BaseCamp


Budget/proposal discussion and evaluation
* + DP calculates has an unencumbered surplus of $37K. Keeping a cushion of $20K
	 leaves $15\-$20K to spend in 2009\.
	 
	 The Board reviewed the three submitted proposals and evaluated them in light
	 of the priorities that emerged from the brainstorming session. JF discussed
	 the [Community
	 Technical Officer](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1u2XCqA-vJccrwX8w8ufC7k8w9Xq4FAemcDEKrJ84bRk/edit?usp=sharing) proposal, which fits in with the membership and
	 liaison goals identified. The estimated cost is $8\-$12K. DO suggested that
	 JF reconceive this as a proposal for a program with a coordinator, rather
	 than for a specific person, with updated costs. Also interested in whether
	 the officer would focus on actual consulting, or on coordinating consulting.
	 VL will work with JF to further develop the proposal, tie it to the goals
	 and priorities discussed earlier. They will present back to the Board in a
	 month.
	 
	 SS discussed the [SIG grants](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1t8DnPiIcHdNp1lgBz1LDvlcg6CHZ1PfK6TNiro4n_r8/edit?usp=sharing)
	 proposal, to provide a small bit of extra money to the SIGs to help them
	 accomplish their goals. The Board had the following questions about the
	 proposal: Who would adjudicate these, the Board or the Council? How will
	 this money enable SIGs to do what they're doing better? What would be a
	 successful outcome? What can realistically be accomplished with such small
	 amounts of money? What is an appropriate scope for the grants? SS and JL
	 will further develop the proposal, and present back to the Board in a month.
	 
	 DO discussed the [Council
	 meetings proposal](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1f49iSNQ3QTs23xRUQrtaNAWWH7hxTWsPhn3EETG3Fhg/edit?usp=sharing). LR wants the Council to meet twice, using the
	 "TEI Day" model of the Kyoto and Galway meetings, because those meetings
	 were extremely productive. Drawing on local resources would help keep the
	 costs down. The Board had the following questions about the proposal: What
	 is the average cost for a meeting? How does this address the goals and
	 priorities identified earlier? Why couldn't the same intense level of work
	 be accomplished via teleconference? Would it be more cost effective for the
	 Board to spend money on videoconferencing capabilities? What is a minimum
	 host contribution?


Wrapping up
* + The Board divided up responsibilities for investigating goals and priorities that
	 will require funding in the coming year:
		- Roma improvements: SR and DP (Dec)
		- Website: CR and web committee (Jan)
		- Tite benefit decided: DO (Jan)
		- Budgeting for the Members' Meeting: DO (Dec)
		- Credit card costing: DO (Dec)
		- TEI subscribers: RS and DO (Dec)
		- Grants and projects: DO (Summer)
		- TEI publication: SS (Summer)
	 The goal of the Board's first informal meeting will be to farm out the remaining goals
	 and priorities into discrete projects.


Adjournment
* The meeting adjourned at 16:00 GMT.


  
