---
layout: page.njk
title: "Minutes for TEI Board Conference Call: 13 May 2008"
---
# Minutes for TEI Board Conference Call: 13 May 2008







, 1600
 (BST)

Daniel O'Donnell


Certification* The meeting was called to order with the following people present: Julia
 Flanders, Daniel O'Donnell (Chair and Minutes), Laurent Romary, Sebastian Rahtz,
 Ray Siemens, Susan Schreibman
Approval of Agenda* Approved. JF asked if discussion of Syd Bauman's proposal for SIG support
 could be added to agenda as previously discussed with DPOD.
Approval of Minutes* Approved
Items for Action* Recognising Service+ A proposal made by SR regarding recognising the service of long
	 standing and founding members of the TEI was discussed. It was
	 suggested that such recognition would be useful both for the TEI and
	 its members, subscribers, and others, by helping establish the
	 connection between the TEI and those it sends out as emissaries.
	
	
	A discussion ensued as to the pros and cons of the proposal. While
	 the merits of identifying long standing supporters and founding
	 members of the organisation was broadly recognised, it was also
	 noted that the potential also existed for slighting the efforts of
	 those who for whatever reason were not awarded such honors.
	
	
	The final decision was to find a mechanism that did not rely on
	 arbitrary decisions concerning worth, such as a list of founding
	 officers.
	
	
	DPOD was asked to investigate mechanisms and language for such a
	 list.
	Proposal for SIG Secretary or Advisor+ Due to the complexity and late notice of this item, discussion at the
	 board level was deferred.
	
	
	DPOD, SS, and LR were asked to consider the proposal in detail and
	 discuss further with Syd Bauman and others as necessary
Items for Discussion, Referral, Possible Action* Next six months: Suggestion for Improving Board's responsiveness.+ DPOD led discussion of proposal for reorganising the business of the
	 Board. The proposal called for establishing a regular series of
	 quarterly meetings of the board as a whole and an executive
	 consisting of named officers of the board to help members and others
	 prepare items for the board's consideration. DPOD suggested that
	 this approach would have the advantage of improving the consortium's
	 efficiency in handling its business and provide those wishing to
	 make proposals to the consortium with a transparent method of
	 bringing their suggestions to the board's attention.
	
	
	Opinions on both aspects of the proposal was mixed, with some members
	 expressing approval for both suggestions, some neither, and some one
	 or the other. Opinion was also mixed as to whether the proposal's
	 diagnosis of the problem was accurate. The suggestion that the board
	 work on a regular series of quarterly meetings was more widely
	 supported than the idea that it empower a formal executive. There
	 was no support for rewriting the bylaws to reflect the proposed
	 changes at this time.
	
	
	The final conclusion was that the proposal was premature for official
	 action.
	'viral' report at November meeting (to the community, and in the
	 programme, or to the board?+ RS discussed the status of the "viral" experiment and the best method
	 of presenting it at the members' meeting. It was decided that the report
	 could be best presented during the business meeting and, if necessary,
	 as a poster as well.
Reports* Report on MM2008 by Susan+ Presented
	Report on DH2008 session by Susan and Ray+ Presented




