---
layout: page.njk
title: "Minutes of the TEI-C Board telephone conference held 19 June 2003"
---
# Minutes of the TEI-C Board telephone conference held 19 June 2003







TEI\-C Board of Directors meeting, 19 June 2003
Telephone conference

Lou Burnard


The meeting commenced at 1400 BST, with the following in attendance: 


Syd Bauman (SB: North American Editor); Lou
 Burnard (LB: European Editor); Julia Flanders (JF: Host Representative for
 Brown University); Claus Huitfeldt (CH: Honorary Treasurer;
 Host Representative for Bergen University); William
 A. Kretzschmar, Jr (WK: Elected, November 2002; 
 Alois Pichler (AP: Executive Director, Bergen); Daniel Pitti (DP: Incoming
 Host Representative, Virginia); 
 Sebastian Rahtz (SR: Host Representative for Oxford University); Peter
 Robinson (PR: Elected, November 2001\); Geoffrey Rockwell
 (GR: Honorary Secretary; Elected, November 2002\); Harold
 Short (HS: Vice Chair; Elected, November 2001\); John
 Unsworth (JU: Chair; Host Representative for University of
 Virginia) 


Agenda* The [previously\-circulated agenda](/Board/bm09.xml) was
 adopted, with two additions
1\. Old Business* The board reviewed outstanding actions from the two previous
 Board meetings ([Prague, May 2002](/Board/bm06.xml) and
 [Chicago, October 2002](/Board/bm08.xml)). The
 following items were noted:


	+ Inclusion of TEI membership in grant applications. JMU had
	 already lobbied NEH and would continue to do so. DP volunteered
	 to approach the director of NHPRC. HS had approached
	 David Robey, newly appointed IT co\-ordinator for the AHRB and
	 would liaise further with him and with LB on the subject. GR
	 was discussing the topic with the head of SSHRC and would
	 circulate a draft approach. (Now available at [bw01\.txt](bw01.txt)).
	+ Consultancy on the writing of grant applications. JF had already
	 posted a suitable paragraph (Now available at [bw02\.txt](bw02.txt)). 
	 A document listing grant
	 application deadlines for relevant funders would also be
	 useful: AP volunteered to draft one. 
	 AP
	1 Sept to
	 circulate draft timetable for funding deadlines
	+ LB had continued to lobby for inclusion of TEI support in
	 the eculturenet FP6 proposal. CH had approached two German
	 foundations unsuccessfully; the action on him to discuss
	 possible Japanese sources with Christian Wittern was carried
	 forward. 
	 CH
	1 Sept to approach Wittern for
	 information on Japanese funding sources
	+ AP had started a document on TEI procedures. 
	 AP
	15 Sept to circulate draft document on TEI procedures
	 (BW03\)
	+ The action on JU to produce a document on recruiting
	 literature was dropped through lack of available funding
	+ The formation of SIGs was to be taken up later on the
	 agenda; several I18N issues had been discussed at the TEI Council, and
	 were being addressed within the Meta workgroup.
2\. Financial report* CH summarized the current financial situation (see further
 documents at <TEI_CH_2003_rep_1a.htm>). Income for
 2002 had been substantially lower than anticipated in the budget,
 but this was offset by a surplus from the previous year. Noting
 that income had been reasonably stable at around $110k for the
 last two years, the Board suggested that cuts should be made in
 the proposed 2003 Budget (currently based on income of $150k) to
 bring it in line with that figure. A number of suggestions were
 made as to where budgetted expenses might be reduced: these included the training
 and extraneous travel budgets and also reductions in host expenditure
 claimed from the budget. 
 CH
1 July to propose a new
 budget for 2003, reduced by approx 40K.



 CH
 requested that accounting and invoicing should be carried out
 quarterly, and the Board agreed that claims should be submitted
 within a 30 day window of the end of each quarter henceforth
 (starting July 31st). The Board also discussed the need for
 hosts to submit both financial and activity reports on a regular
 basis. Both reports might be merged into a single
 document, but it should be easy to extract the financial
 information, and they should be submitted on the same quarterly
 basis. 
 JU
1 July to re\-submit the UVA report as
 two documents following a similar format to that worked on by
 AP ([BMR07](bmr07.xml))
3\. Membership Report* The Board reviewed the statistics presented in AP's document
 (<members.pdf>) and noted that there had been no 
 new div0 members since 2002\. PR suggested that in the Netherlands
 and Germany individual institutions did not have the budget for
 membership, but that approaches to higher level infastructural
 organizations such as the KNLAW or DFG might be successful. 
 PR
22 Julyto approach
 KNLAW and DFG.
LB
22 Julyto contact Kurt Gartner about
 possible German library membership. HS noted that individual
 departments and projects within an institution should also be 
 encouraged to join at lower levels.
4\. Grant Reports* AP reviewed the status of a number of EU funding proposals in
 which TEI was named (see [bm\-eu.pdf](bm-eu.pdf)); LB reported
 that TEI was also named in the eculturenet proposal and a STRP on
 which he was working with colleagues in Prague and Bulgaria. JU
 reported that a proposal to develop TEI conformant tools for
 scholarly authoring would probably be funded by the Mellon
 foundation. This would provide a 50k grant, starting in August. The Mellon
 currently wished to route the funds through Oxford rather than through the
 TEI, despite JU's counter arguments. At CH's request, JU agreed
 to enquire whether the funds could be routed through Bergen for
 convenience of accounting purposes.
5\. Feature Structures and ISO* JU draw the Board's attention to concerns expressed at the
 TEI council about the adoption of this work item by ISO: any
 changes proposed by the workgroup could not be reverted once the
 proposal had been taken up by ISO. LB reported that he had now
 been accepted as official TEI liaison and agreed to check with
 the workgroup what changes were proposed. 
 LB
1 Julyto discuss the workgroup's proposals with Tomaz Erjavec and Laurent
 Romary and report back.
6\. Copyright and licensing of the TEI* The Board reviewed Council's recommendations concerning
 licensing and copyright of TEI products (see [../Council/tcm07\.html](../Council/tcm07.html), item 9\) and endorsed in
 principle the idea that some form of GPL should be adopted, with
 the proviso that the conformance chapter of the Guidelines should be treated
 as 
 invariant text. SR commented that there
 were several potentially thorny unresolved issues affecting
 teaching materials, web sites, tutorials etc to be addressed. It
 was agreed that SB and SR should proceed as far as possible, and 
 report their progress to the Members meeting. 
 SB/SR
1 Julyto circulate draft GPL copyright notice to the Board
7\. 2003 Members Meeting* PR reported that preparations were in hand for the meeting in
 Nancy. Speakers so far proposed included Nancy Ide, Kurt Gartner, Henry
 Thompson, Vincent Quint, James Clark, Jenny Tennison, Robin
 Cover; Board members were asked to propose others. A 15k budget
 had been allocated, though 10K should be sufficient and would
 cover invited speakers' expenses. It was agreed that the
 programme should include a slot for proposed SIGs. The Programme
 Committee comprised PR, Laurent Romary and the editors. 
 PR
1 Septto request Romary to invite proposals for SIGs and circulate
 them
PR
1 July to send LB meeting details
 for inclusion on the website
8\. Nominations Committee* WK reported that the committee chaired by Susan Schreibman had
 made good progress and now had an agreed slate of six candidates for the
 two posts on the Board, and of 10 candidates for the six
 vacancies on the council (see [bw04\.txt](bw04.txt) for
 details). 
 LB/SS
1 Septto prepare formal notice of
 election for website in time for nomination deadline of 15
 sept.
9\. ADHO committee report* This item was deferred through lack of time: JF was requested to
 submit a written report for consideration by the Board (now
 available at [bw05\.txt](bw05.txt)).
10\. TEI Council Chair* JU reported that the Council had put forward two suggestions to
 replace him following his resignation as Chair. After
 discussion, the Board resolved to approach Christian Wittern,
 Susan Schreibman, and Matthew Driscoll, in that order.
 HS
1 Julyto ask these candidates if they would be
 willing to serve
11\. TEI Board Chair and Vice\-Chair* JU at this point withdrew and HS assumed the role of chair. The
 Board formally recorded its thanks to JU for his distinguished
 service as chair. JF was proposed as the new vice\-chair and
 elected nem com.
12\. TEI Logo* The board agreed that a new logo was needed, and a group
 comprising JF, GR, and LB/SR was requested to propose
 one. 
 JF
1 July to co\-ordinate proposals for a new
 logo
13\. Co\-opting of Board members* HS agreed to circulate a note on this issue. 
 HS
1 Septto circulate discussion note on co\-opting
 members to the Board


The meeting closed at 1615 BST.




