---
layout: page.njk
title: "Minutes of the TEI-C Board Meeting, University of Michigan, 14-15 November 2009"
creator: David Sewell
---
# Minutes of the TEI-C Board Meeting, University of Michigan, 14-15 November 2009
Meeting held at the University of Michigan, Ann ArborChris Ruotolo


Certification of the meeting
* + The meeting was certified with the following members present: Lou
	Burnard (LB), Julia Flanders (JF), Daniel O'Donnell (DO), Daniel Pitti
	(DP), Laurent Romary (LR), Chris Ruotolo (CR), Susan Schreibman (SS),
	and Christian Wittern (CW).


Approval of agenda
* + The agenda was approved.


Approval of minutes
* + The [minutes](/Board/bm35.xml) of the last meeting were
	approved.


Appointment of officers
* + DO was reappointed as Chair. SS was reappointed as Vice\-Chair. CR will
	step down as Secretary. DP will step down as Treasurer. LR was
	reappointed to a two\-year term as Council Chair. Appointment of the
	Executive Director was deferred.


Conference and Members' Meeting debriefing
* + The conference agenda should always include a summary of changes to the Guidelines at some point.
	The SIGs have requested the opportunity to present
	posters describing their activities, as well as some time to report out
	after their meetings. The posters should go up earlier in the
	conference, and remain up throughout. Holding the poster slam on the
	first evening of the conference would be a good idea, and would
	encourage social interaction.
	Overall feedback about the conference was very positive. The paper
	groupings were appropriate, and the proximity of the parallel sessions
	was very convenient. The conference has been getting longer in recent
	years; three days should be the maximum length.
	
	
	The conference should provide flexible options for scheduling the SIG meetings, which
	might last for a session, a morning, or all day. At a minimum, each SIG
	should hold an introductory meeting at the conference. The Program
	Committee should interact more with the SIGs during the conference
	planning. The SIG coordinators liked the idea of submitting
	informational posters, outside the referee process, which would be
	included in the poster slam. They agreed that there should be more
	communication before and after the conference (circulating minutes on TEI\-L,
	posting minutes to the website, circulating agendas prior to the
	meeting, etc.) Perhaps SIG coordinators could have colored badges to identify
	themselves. The SIGs need to coordinate more with one another, and
	communicate more effectively with the broader TEI community.
	
	
	Outreach and assistance to newbies continue to emerge as themes.
	
	
	Reactions to the conference from individual Board members:
	
	
		- CW: the manuscript and genetic editions work
		was very interesting. The MS SIG will continue to play an
		important and active role, as the TEI begins to see itself
		as an overall infrastructure. The TEI sometimes struggles to
		keep up with what's going on around us; for example, the TEI
		RDF work was news to many of us. We don't create
		opportunities for updates, even among Board members.
		Code4Lib uses Delicious tags to flag things that should be
		on their radar; perhaps the TEI could do the same, and have
		the results show up in an RSS feed on the TEI website (thus
		providing more dynamic content on the home page). Regular
		news updates from the Board and Council could be helpful;
		for example, the election of new Board and Council members,
		and the re\-appointment of officers, could be news. The new
		TEI education journal will also help with
		communication.
		- LB: it was a good meeting.
		The plenaries were very well\-chosen. Unsworth's presentation
		made point that TEI is major player in digital world, and
		needs to talk to other big players. Interest from the
		publishing world is a big development; we missed that
		opportunity with the ACLS. The Publishing SIG discussed the
		possibility of coming up with a recommended spec. The Board
		should reflect on the implications of that. We must not
		forget to include a P5 update at some point during the
		conference!
		\[There's a long list of things the TEI
		wants to do as a consortium; we need a way to match that
		list with funding sources, and leverage grant projects to do
		the things we want to do anyway. Many of us have contacts
		with funding officers, and we should use them more. For
		example, IMLS was interested in knowing more about TEI.
		Maybe the TEI should be writing its own grant
		proposals.]
		- JF: everyone seemed to be in
		a good mood, and there was a feeling of momentum, which
		speaks to the quality of the program. There were lots of new
		faces, and people seemed to be having good interactions. The
		variety of presentation formats (papers, micropapers,
		posters, slam) was very effective. We are too
		diffident about the Members Meeting, which has important,
		interesting content. We should aim for less apology and more
		showmanship. Some of the MCing procedures can be eliminated
		or condensed. Something on the badge to identify members
		would be helpful for items that require a vote. The meeting
		agenda needs to be circulated earlier.
		- DP: the HathiTrust uses Google markup instead of
		TEI, despite the fact that it's a library initiative. There
		may be an opportunity to encourage the addition of at least rudimentary TEI
		markup as material is being brought into this library
		context.


Review of strategic items from [London Board
meeting](/Board/bm30.xml)
* + Grants
		- * The SIG microgrants provided great return on investment. The
			grants are a validation of the SIGs' activities as well as a
			financial boost. We need a formal procedure for reporting the
			results of the grant \-\- both where the money went, and what the
			SIG achieved \-\- as well as a space on the website for posting
			the reports. Financial details should be omitted.
			Receiving grants should be a priority for the TEI. We need to
			focus on "revenue\-positive" activities. This includes activities
			that don't bring in money to the TEI directly, but produce
			activity that's useful to us (e.g. the WWP grants).Training and TEI promotion
		- "Getting Started with TEI" has stalled out. Is there a way to
		take what's been started and keep working? LR will check with
		Peter Boot to see if he's willing to continue working on it.
		TEI Days have worked very well. Ambassador travel is very useful,
		especially when paid for by someone else.
	\[Meeting adjourned for the day; review of strategic items to be continued
	on Day 2]


Reports
* + Chair's report (DO)
		- * The TEI currently has 83 members and 18 subscribers. Recruitment
			and retention will be big challenges in the coming year.
			The AccessTEI contract is not the standard Apex contract, and
			must be vetted by lawyers. We should have it by early next week.
			The work on the specification (TEI Tite) should be harmonized
			with the work of the Libraries SIG on the Best Practices
			Guidelines. Kevin Hawkins will join the working group to help
			coordinate these efforts. The working group also includes Perry
			Trolard, Paul Schaffner, and David Seaman (representing Apex).
			The TEI Tite ODDs will be updated when the spec is
			finalized.Treasurer's report (DP)
		- * DP reviewed the [2008
			expenses](/990financial2008/) and [2009 budget](/2009memmeetreport/) reports. The conference brought in $9,322
			in pledged sponsorship ($6,990 of which has been paid), $3,870
			in registration, and $460 in pre\-conference registration.
			Overall, the TEI will run a small profit on the conference.
			Only \~$6,000 of this year's projected administrative expenses
			have been invoiced so far. Membership resignations are up and
			revenues are down; there's been a 15% drop in membership
			compared to last year. The remaining Mellon money needs to be
			spent by the end of the year. In total, the TEI should have
			about $50,000 in the bank at the end of 2009\.Council report (LR)
		- * The Council held one face\-to\-face meeting in 2009, plus regular
			conference calls. There's a nice proposal from Dublin to host a
			Council meeting/"TEI Day" event there; it would probably be a
			3\-day event (one workshop day plus a 2\-day Council meeting),
			perhaps at the end of March. Council has applied for an ESF
			grant to fund a workshop for Son of ODD, and should have a
			response by December. They would like to hold the workshop
			before the Council meeting if possible. LR will send a
			description of the workshop to the Board list.
			Council should strive for better integration with the SIGs,
			especially regarding how SIG activities impact the TEI
			infrastructure. For example, the Correspondence SIG wants to do
			technical work that would require significant Council
			involvement. Council should integrate SIG updates into its
			meetings and teleconferences.
			
			
			Resources are needed for tools development \-\- for example,
			XPointer implementation. Council should make a formal proposal
			to the Board for funding. Traditionally, tool development has
			not been funded by the TEI.
			
			
			The ISO activity has been good for TEI's visibility in the
			outside world. We need to accelerate the work this work, and
			issue joint communications when possible. A wiki\-like space is
			needed to exchange technical information and identify possible
			further modules which could be shared. Council would like to
			organize a second face\-to\-face meeting in 2010, in conjunction
			with the ISO meetings planned for October in Berlin.
			
			
			JF raised the issue of outreach to common users. There's still a
			need for very basic tools and support for TEI users.
			
			
			CW raised questions about versioning and stability of the
			Guidelines. LR will summarize current practice for updating the
			Guidelines and naming the releases, and post this to the Board
			list.Secretary and Webmaster report (CR)
		- * A news feature and RSS feed have been added to the website, along
			with a site search function. The new project form has been
			revised and semi\-automated. A software program (Nagios) has been
			installed on the TEI server, which will ping Tomcat every two
			minutes and automatically restart it if the site appears to be
			down.
			The SIGs want better access and more control over their
			designated space on the website. It's possible to grant targeted
			web permissions to the SIG representatives within OpenCMS.
			Migrating to a new CMS (such as Drupal) may make this somewhat
			easier.
			
			
			Migrating the TEI Vault to the new website remains a high
			priority. The Council has proposed new procedures for archiving
			versions of the Guidelines in the Vault space, and David Sewell
			has the necessary permissions to begin this work. TEI conference
			materials (schedules, presentations, posters, etc.) should be
			archived more consistently on the website.
			
			
			There are currently three different versions of the TEI members
			and subscribers database \-\- the canonical version at Nancy, a
			cloned version at Virginia that's used for the online elections,
			and the data generated by the new online payment system. All
			three should be coordinated into a comprehensive CRM system.Host activity reports
		- Host activity reports for 2009 have not yet been posted on the
		website \-\- only Lethbridge has submitted one so far. The host
		representatives present gave brief summaries of the year's
		activities:
			* Brown: continued to provide listserv maintenance.
			Conducted an NEH introductory seminar series, attended
			by individuals from 71 different institutions, which
			brought in new memberships. An advanced seminar series
			has been funded by the NEH and will run through June
			2011\. Andy Ashton wrote a grant for TEI modules for the
			CAESAR framework.
			* Lethbridge: focused on researching and implementing the
			new credit card system.
			* Oxford: Sebastian Rahtz worked on the Word/TEI roundtrip
			system. LB and others contributed to the ENRICH project
			for customization of manuscript description; the work
			includes development of the gBank software, which allows
			for handling of non\-standard characters. LB now works
			half time for the CNRS; this work will help promote the
			use of TEI in France.
			* Virginia: focused on financial, administrative, and
			website work.


Selection of standing committees and representatives
* + Nominating committee: JF will chair, and LR will serve. They will ask
	Markus Flatscher to serve as the non\-Board member, and will approach the
	other non\-elected Council nominees if he declines.
	Conference program committee: CW will chair, and DO will serve. CW will
	approach Becky Welzenbach, Syd Bauman, and Hugh Cayless about serving.
	2\-3 local organizers should sit on the program committee. Kevin Hawkins
	has put together a handbook on local organizing that will be
	helpful.
	
	
	SIG coordinator: SS will continue in this role.
	
	
	Board representative to Council: LR will continue in this role.
	
	
	LR will approach Matthew Driscoll about filling the Council seat vacated
	by Arianna Ciula.


Host representation and vacancies
* + The extended term for all hosts except Lethbridge will expire at the end
	of 2010\. The TEI will issue an open RFP for services, and all potential
	hosts will need to apply. The Board should think about the needs of the
	Consortium. Are there services we should purchase, rather than relying
	on hosts to provide them? Who will be the four host representatives on
	the Board for 2010 and beyond? LB has been leading the search for a
	possible Board appointee to provide a fresh perspective, but no suitable
	candidate has yet been found. The current Board has nine members;
	perhaps we should consider increasing the size. We should aim for a 1:1
	ratio of elected and appointed members.
	DP and CR recommended that Sarah Wells (Virginia/IATH) be appointed
	Treasurer and Secretary for the coming year. DP will remain the host
	representative for Virginia, to ease the transition. David Sewell has
	agreed in principle to serve as Webmaster, and James Cummings is willing
	to serve as backup. This suggestion was accepted by the Board.


Review of strategic items from [London Board
meeting](/Board/bm30.xml) (continued)
* + Restructuring
		- * The Council term length will remain at two years for now. The
			discussion of the Board's makeup is ongoing.Membership
		- * We need to work on increasing our membership numbers, and
			increasing the value of membership; the AccessTEI initiative
			should help with both goals. We should improve opportunities for
			individuals to interact with the TEI, and work on increasing the
			number of subscribers. The TEI should liaise broadly with other
			organizations like ISO.SIGs
		- * The purpose and direction of the SIGs has been clarified. As
			discussed earlier, better coordination between the SIGs and
			Council is desirable.TEI publishing
		- * Two publishing initiatives are in the works. One involves
			formally publishing materials from the annual conference, and is
			being led by SS and LB. The other is a more informal publishing
			arm for the TEI, currently being worked on by the Education
			SIG.Services and guidelines
		- * Some work on customizations is being done, but would be better
			facilitated through microgrants. The "road map" for the
			Guidelines should be more clearly articulated. Improving Roma is
			a high priority, but dependent upon funding; possibly a target
			for an NEH digital humanities development grant. Work on
			localization of the Guidelines is important and ongoing.Website
		- * The RSS and news features have been implemented, and so has the
			search function. Internationalization and localization of the
			website are currently low priorities. Training and promotional
			materials can be provided by the SIGs; this relates to the need
			for improved community access to the website. Work on the Vault
			is in progress, but not much has been accomplished yet.Business processes
		- The online payment system has been implemented. There's been some
		improvement in the annual budgeting process. Conference funding
		for local hosts has been increased. The Board has agreed to move
		to a per diem reimbursement system for travel.


List of priority issues from review of strategic goals
* + - Grants
		- Training
		- Recruiting and maintenance
		- Discipline\-oriented guidelines
		- Internal and external funding
		- Improved community access to website
		- Promotion
		- Improved administration (invoicing, databases, etc.)
		- Better support and services for newbies
		- Articulating our influence; getting out in front of trends
		- Communication, both internal and toward the broader TEI
		community


Addressing the priority issues
* + Grant program
		- * The TEI should provide distinct types of microgrants, with funds
			allocated for each. Possibilities include expanded SIG\-specific
			grants, grants for desired tool development, planning grants,
			etc. There could be a single call for proposals for all grants,
			but with separate pots of money for each category.
			LB and SS will draft a proposal for a multi\-faceted grant
			program, and submit it to the Board for review. The Board will
			then allocate the appropriate funds.Improved administration
		- * There are currently three databases that contain membership and
			accounting information, which should be consolidated. The task
			of communicating with members and subscribers is currently
			spread among different Board members.
			DP, VL, DO, and CR will form a working group to tackle this
			problem and develop functional specs for TEI membership
			administration. Some of the funds allocated for administrative
			work at Nancy and Virginia will be directed toward this
			activity. The group should have a proposal in place in time for
			the budget allocation process. DO will convene the group.
			
			
			CW requested more itemization of how the membership
			administration and account administration subsidies are being
			used.Recruiting/communication/support for newbies
		- * All of these activities can be improved. DO will place a
			membership and recruitment call to TEI\-L. JF and DO will strike
			a recruitment committee.RFP process for hosts
		- * The Board should begin the process by making a list of required
			services, without regard to whether or not they should be
			handled by hosts or by others. The RFP must be issued by early
			spring, so that the process can be completed in time for
			announcement at the next conference in Fall 2010\. The list of
			services should therefore be completed by March. The RFP call
			will be relatively broad, so that potential hosts can suggest
			things we haven't thought of. DO, SS, CW, and LR will form a
			committee to work on the RFP. Staggering the terms of the hosts
			should be considered.Budgeting
		- The Board will vet budget proposals in a process similar to last
		year's. DP will draft a budget for next year, flagging
		non\-negotiable expenses so that we don't waste time on them.
		Board members will submit proposals for discretionary spending
		within 2 weeks, followed by a comment period for discussion. The
		budget vetting process will take place a month from now.


Adjournment
* The meeting adjourned at 16:00 EST.



 