---
layout: page.njk
title: "Minutes of the TEI-C Board Teleconference, 13 December 2006"
---
# Minutes of the TEI-C Board Teleconference, 13 December 2006







TEI\-C Board of Directors teleconference, 13 Dec 2006
Minutes

Chris Ruotolo


The teleconference began at 14:09 GMT, with the following Board members present: Syd
 Bauman (SB),
 Julia Flanders (JF), John Lavagnino (JL), Daniel O'Donnell (DO), Sebastian Rahtz (SR),
 Chris
 Ruotolo (CR), John Unsworth (JU), and Matt Zimmerman (MZ). 


DO laid out the purpose of the call: to discuss how to proceed with medium\-term planning
 for
 the future of the TEI. DO referred to the prior email discussion on this subject,
 which he had
 synthesized and grouped into three subheadings that were circulated before the meeting.
 He asked
 for feedback on these subheadings: 


* Membership/Subscriptionship/Sponsorship
* External Promotion
* Organisation


DO proposed that we organize ourselves into small subcommittees to work through the
 issues in each
 category. JF suggested an action\-oriented approach based on specific goals in each
 area (e.g. 3
 initiatives to improve outreach or 2 strategies to increase membership). 


SR noted that the three categories are interdependent and all relate to the larger
 question of
 what the TEI will do with itself after P5\. He suggested a first level of discussion
 on the
 larger question to get us all on the same page, before we split up into groups. The
 Board agreed
 to ask itself some very basic questions: Why does the TEI exist? Should it still
 exist in five
 years' time? Why do we want members, and what do we expect from them? The TEI now
 performs many
 functions that could be separated or outsourced. If, for example, we were to spin
 off the
 maintenance of the standard to OASIS or ISO, and focus on an educational and promotional
 role,
 it would require a very different set of strategies.


At this point, JU provided some project updates: 


* The TEI Tight project is approaching completion. JU will circulate the results to
 the
 Board and eventually to the Council. The end product will be a minimal union set of
 the
 encoding guidelines and schemas used at Michigan, Virginia, and the California Digital
 Library, delivered as an ODD file. The next step is to negotiate with keyboarding
 vendors and
 ask them to offer a discount to smaller encoding projects that agree to use the spec.
 This
 could be an important member benefit for small projects. The TEI could serve as middleman
 between the projects and vendors \-\- the vendors might appreciate having a single point
 of
 contact, and it would make it easier to collect the membership fee from interested
 projects.
* Chris Mackie at the Mellon Foundation is looking to award funding ($30K\-$50K) for
 the
 development of tools that can be used to manipulate library collections in XML. There's
 a
 possible role for the TEI or its host members in providing the servers that host these
 tools.
 If we were interested, we'd need to write it into the grant proposal (draft due mid\-January;
 final deadline March 15\). JU will initiate further discussion over email.


The Board returned to the planning discussion. DO agreed to pose some fundamental
 questions in
 an email to the Board list: Should the TEI be around in 5 years, and if so, what should
 be its
 focus? (Should it be a standards maintenance organization? A user group for a standard
 that we
 hand off to someone else? A standards development organization that begins work on
 P6 once P5 is complete?)
 Board members can each write a couple of paragraphs in response. Not everyone needs
 to do it,
 but we need enough responses to generate a meaningful discussion. The deadline for
 responses is
 one month, with goal that by the next members' meeting, we should be looking at concrete
 proposals on these issues. Agreement to initiate discussion of the position papers
 by email, and
 see how it progresses, then schedule another conference call if needed. 


SR suggested that the position papers include necessary steps toward the vision we
 propose. A
 recognition of cost and other necessary resources is implied. JF suggested that we
 justify our
 choices and the consequences of the vision we articulate in terms of benefits to the
 TEI
 community and the greater good. We should explicity state what our role in the world
 is. 


DO
Dec. 18Formulate discussion question for the
 Board and circulate it to the email list. Poll the Board to see who is planning to
 write a
 response within the one month time limit. The Board will circulate the responses on
 the list and
 begin discussion, to be followed by another conference call if necessary.
The teleconference adjourned at 15:05 GMT.




