---
layout: page.njk
title: "Minutes of the TEI-C Board Meeting, College Park, Maryland, USA, 4 November 2007"
---
# Minutes of the TEI-C Board Meeting, College Park, Maryland, USA, 4 November 2007







TEI\-C Board of Directors meeting, 4 Nov 2007
Meeting held at the McKeldin Library, University of Maryland

Chris Ruotolo


Certification of the meeting* The meeting was certified at 10:15 EST, with the following members present: Syd Bauman
 (SB),
 Lou Burnard (LB), Julia Flanders (JF), Bertrand Gaiffe (BG), John Lavagnino (JL),
 Daniel
 O'Donnell (DO), Daniel Pitti (DP), Sebastian Rahtz (SR), Chris Ruotolo (CR), Susan
 Schreibman
 (SS), Ray Siemens (RS), and John Unsworth (JU).
Approval of agenda* The meeting agenda was approved.
Review of minutes from previous meeting* The minutes from the last conference call were approved.
Appointment of officers* Daniel O'Donnell was reappointed as Chair. Julia Flanders was reappointed as Vice\-Chair.
 Chris Ruotolo was reappointed as Secretary. Daniel Pitti was reappointed as Treasurer.
Financial reports* DP walked the Board through the spreadsheets he had provided. He noted that the I18N
 grant
 monies came in 2006 for work this year, but there's a possibility that the work will
 carry
 over into 2008\. SR will check in with the ALLC to give a progress report on the I18N
 work, and see if
 funds can carry over to next year.
 


The TEI's year\-end balances have been getting smaller every year, but we're doing
 well in
 collecting membership dues and are slightly up from last year. SS reported about $2,200
 in
 subscriber fees from the Members Meeting, in addition to the $709\.87 already collected.
 The MM will
 come in under budget, in part because we did well in generating meeting sponsorship
 this year.
 Maryland will return the surplus to the TEI coffers, as UVic did last year. SS will
 provide
 the Board with a final accounting for the event when it's available; this should be
 useful to
 future MM organizers.
Host reports* The host reports for 2007 have all been received. With Lethbridge proposed as a host,
 we
 need to look at in\-kind host contributions and see if they're appropriate. Brown's
 main
 contribution is Syd's editorial time. Nancy contributes administrative services, such
 as
 keeping track of membership. Oxford contributes the time that Sebastian puts in on
 infrastructure work. Virginia contributes website maintenance and hardware.
Status of membership* BG reported that we have 83 current members. 33 institutions were purged from the
 roster
 between 2006\-07 for various reasons, including non\-payment. This seems like a substantial
 turnover of membership, although the 33 purged members represent a few years' worth
 of attrition.
 The Board asked VL to send complete membership data to the email list. A fair number
 of memberships are paid by grant
 monies, which is a good thing. The Board agreed that it's worth looking at membership
 issues
 at more regular intervals. JL volunteered to work with VL and BG on this. We need
 to
 communicate regularly with members about dues, electors, and so on.
Nomination committee* RS reported that last year's committee ran very smoothly. A number of people who have
 served
 on Council cited excess workload as a reason they weren't willing to run again. We
 should
 encourage all nominees to talk to the Council chair about workload and expectations.
 The
 Council workload was especially heavy during the past year's push toward P5\. DO suggested
 writing formal letters of recognition to the Council members' employers, mentioning
 the
 specific work they did, and making this a standard practice. 


The slate of nominees for Board and Council should be sent to TEI\-L, not just the
 list of
 TEI members, and it should be posted at least sixty days before the election. The
 SOP document
 should be amended accordingly. 


Separate mailing lists for working groups like the nomination committee could be helpful.
 Suggestions for addresses should be sent to DP and JL.
TEI Tite* JU spoke to several keyboarding vendors who are interested in TEI Tite but want to
 know what
 kind of throughput they can expect. This implies the need for a survey of potential
 Tite
 users. JU put in an informal inquiry at Mellon to see if they would support a small
 grant for
 the survey work. We can also survey the ACLS ebook folks and others about which keyboard
 vendors they've worked with and which they would recommend. The two surveys can proceed
 in
 parallel. DLF does have some funding, and might be willing to fund the surveys. JU
 would like
 to keep Perry Trolard involved. DO asked JU and SS to work on this, keeping Michele
 Dalmau in
 the loop. The goal is to deliver the survey in the near future, and to find the vendors.
Committee Appointments* Nomination committee: SS and RS, with other members to be selected.
 It's a good idea for the past year's nominations chair to carry over to the next committee,
 when possible, for continuity. The committee will establish the procedures document
 discussed
 earlier. 



2008 MM committee: Paul Spence and Arianna Ciula are the CCH local
 organizers for the 2008 MM. SS volunteered to chair the MM planning committee and
 assemble the
 other members. In the past, the Board chair has sent out the call for bids. It might
 be
 worthwhile for a couple of Board members to actively solicit good hosting bids. It
 is very
 important that the bidding process be open. The call for bids should go out earlier,
 to allow
 time for the Board to contact those bidders and work with them. A committee on meeting
 host
 recruitment was formed, with JF (chair), RS, and JL volunteering. The committee will
 write up
 guidelines for hosting a TEI meeting, and will make an effort to recruit non\-Anglophone
 hosts. 



Web services committee: CR, JF, and LB. Immediate next steps are to
 migrate the remaining materials on the UK site to the new site, and to enhance the
 content
 aimed at TEI beginners. The committee will determine roles and responsibilities for
 website
 maintenance, and will consider what web services are needed in support of e.g. the
 SIGs. DP
 will register tei\-c.org for as many years as possible.



Finances and grants committee: Should this committee exist? The idea of
 building awareness of funding opportunities, programs, deadlines, etc. is a good one,
 but the
 committee hasn't worked well in the past. JF suggested that it's still worth having
 a group to
 maintain a core database of recurring grant programs, and combine this with the grant
 assistance program. SR recommended that the group focus on identifying things we want
 to
 accomplish, rather than just getting money. We should ask a group of 2\-3 people to
 work on
 improving our ability to get grants, and report back in the next quarter. This group
 will need
 to have a clear sense of the medium term goals for the TEI.
Hosting offer from Lethbridge* Lethbridge has offered to become the fifth TEI host institution. Its in\-kind contribution
 would include the TEI accounting responsibilities. The account would be held at the
 Bank of
 Montreal in USD. DP and DO are still investigating the legal implications of Lethbridge
 taking
 over the accounting. They will talk to the accounting firm that we work with, as well
 as a
 lawyer who handles non\-profit organization status. It would be nice if we could accept
 funds
 directly in other currencies.


The Board voted to accept Lethbridge as a host, pending final negotiations. DO, DP,
 and RS
 will oversee these negotiations, identifying any problems and making sure the Board's
 interests are represented. A final contract will be presented to the Board for a vote.
 Initially, Lethbridge will not have a host representative on the Board, as DO's Board
 term
 runs for another 2 years. We may want to reconsider this in the future.
Kazan conference and recruitment travel* The Kazan organizers have offered the TEI $1,000 per person to bring two people to
 the
 conference. We could send LB and one other person, perhaps Kevin Hawkins, Tatiana
 Timcenko, or
 Matthew Driscoll. The travel sum will easily cover travel expenses from Europe, but
 from North
 America, the cost would be closer to $1,400\. DO will inform the organizers that we
 will be
 able to send two people (LB and another person TBD), and will ask them if we can divide
 the
 money between the travellers as we wish.


LB has been invited to participate in two workshops at the LREC 2008 conference in
 Marrakesh. LREC is an important conference; TEI has been closely involved in the past,
 but
 less so in recent years. This would be a good opportunity to reconnect with this community,
 
 and should be a high priority. The conference is expensive and will cost at least
 $1,000, maybe more. The Board authorized $1,000 for LB to attend LREC.


The Board agreed to set up a fund for subvention of recruiting trips like these. The
 initial
 fund will be $2,000\. The Board will decide what the travel priorities should be, and
 how to
 maximize the value of the money. Travelers can apply to the Board for money; if funded,
 they
 would be expected to submit a trip report back to the Board.
Technical council and editors* Both Editors' terms have expired, and the Council Chair is gone, making this an opportune
 time for organizational change. DO proposed a new editorial structure for the TEI,
 based on
 the following positions: 


	+ A Council Chair, who would sit on the Board as an officer, similar to the Treasurer,
	 and be responsible for thinking strategically about the technical development of the
	 TEI.
	 This position would be voluntary.
	+ A Technical Secretary, who would report to the Chair and be responsible for carrying
	 out the technical development, rather than strategizing. This position would be reimbursed.
	+ A SIG Secretary or Advisor, who would provide technical and logistical support to
	 the TEI user community and
	 would be analogous to the Technical Secretary. This person would help the user community
	 execute things like training and customization. This position would be reimbursed. DO suggested SR as the Technical Secretary and SB as the SIG Secretary. LB would
 remain on the Board as the Oxford host representative. This arrangement would potentially
 save money; instead
 of $30K for editors and $5K for technical infrastructure work, we might offer $20K
 as
 reimbursement for the Technical Secretary and $10K for the SIG Secretary. Council
 might get a
 pot of the extra money that they could propose uses for to the Board.
 
 These changes would involve amendments to the bylaws, which could be approved by unanimous
 written consent of the Board. The Board asked DO to write up this proposed reorganization
 and
 send it to the Board list. SR and SB are interested in principle in the roles for
 which they
 have been nominated, although unwilling to commit at this time. Once official, the
 Technical Secretary and
 SIG Secretary can figure out how to divide up the editorial support funds and propose
 this to the Board.


Several names were proposed for the position of Technical Council Chair. DO will contact
 the outgoing
 Council members for additional suggestions for this position, and the Board will ultimately
 make the decision.
Printing the P5 Guidelines* DO has discussed printing the Guidelines with OmniPress. David Sewell has also proposed
 the
 University of Virginia Press as a possible publisher. There is no money currently
 budgeted for
 printing, so we'll have to figure out how to pay for it. OmniPress had proposed a
 number of
 different payment options. DO and JU will work on this issue. It will be discussed
 at next
 Board conference call.
TEI as a branded community* RS proposed that we look at other communities that resemble ours, to see if they have
 outreach strategies that could suit the TEI. RS cited the Harley Davidson community
 as an
 example: they have a loyal and dedicated user base that contributes back into product
 development, and groups that get together to meet and talk; we could look at what
 they do
 integrate and mobilize their user community. Other possible models include Apache
 and other
 open source communities. The TEI needs a new brochure; DO suggested that the Lethbridge
 PR department 
 might be able to work on this. A membership and recruitment committee could pull
 this work together
 and focus on maximizing value for members and subscribers. Maybe we should survey
 the user community
 to see what they'd like from us. RS (chair), SS, DO, LB, BG volunteered for the membership
 and
 recruitment committee, and will report back to the Board in the first quarter of 2008\.
 


CR will compile a list of Board committees and who's on them, and add it to the Board
 web
 pages.
Business meeting* The current voting system is fragile, and needs to be strengthened. The ballot should
 be
 included in the MM registration packets. We should contact the
 electors via email in advance of the MM, to remind them of the need to vote. Electronic
 voting, in advance of the MM, with results to be reported at the business meeting,
 would be
 ideal. CR will investigate online voting systems, looking at ACH and similar organizations
 to
 see how they do it. The TEI needs an election coordinator. This will become a role
 of the
 Executive Director, with assistance from the Secretary. We may need to revise the
 language
 about voting and meetings in the bylaws.


The business meeting could be conducted over lunch; this would free up more time for
 SIG
 meetings and might encourage more members to attend. LB and VL will work together
 to rethink
 the structure of the business meeting.
Adjournment* The meeting adjourned at 15:30 EST. The Board thanked SS for hosting the meeting.




