---
layout: page.njk
title: "Minutes of the TEI-C Board Meeting, Victoria, B.C., Canada, 29 October                 2006"
---
# Minutes of the TEI-C Board Meeting, Victoria, B.C., Canada, 29 October                 2006







TEI\-C Board of Directors meeting, 29 Oct 2006
Minutes
Meeting held at the Hotel Grand Pacific, Victoria

Chris Ruotolo


Certification of the meeting* The meeting was certified at 9:20 PST, with the following members present:
 Syd Bauman (SB), Lou Burnard (LB), Julia Flanders (JF), John Lavagnino (JL),
 Daniel O'Donnell (DO), Sebastian Rahtz (SR), Chris Ruotolo (CR), John
 Unsworth (JU), and Matt Zimmerman (MZ). Daniel Pitti (DP) and Gautier Poupeau 
 (GP) arrived shortly after. Incoming Board member Ray Siemens (RS) sat in on
 portions of the meeting.
Review of [minutes](/Board/bm17.xml) from
 previous conference call* * TEI Tight: At the Members' Meeting, Perry Trolard met with David
	 Seaman and SB for a project update. DS will pay for Perry to go to
	 the upcoming DLF meeting in Boston, so that he can attend the TEI in
	 Libraries working group meeting.
	
	* TEI website: MZ noted that several meeting attendees and travel
	 survey respondents had commented on the need for improvements to the
	 current website. Further discussion was postponed until later in the
	 meeting.
	
	* Role of Executive Director: VL, MZ, and JF have worked out an
	 understanding of the ED role and its responsibilities. However, JF
	 noted that we have no formal documentation about it, and that the
	 old standard procedures document from the Bergen days isn't up to
	 date.
	
	
	SB and JF
	Dec. 1Update
	 the [standard procedures document](https://tei-c.org/Board/procedures.xml).
	
	* Role of Secretary: MZ and CR have concluded that we are in compliance
	 with the bylaws. It was suggested that all TEI\-related legal and
	 financial documents should be assembled in one place, and that
	 Virginia is the logical spot given that the Secretary and Honorary
	 Treasurer are both there. 
	
	
	CR
	Spring 2007CR will
	 contact the Board members and ask them to send her all TEI legal and
	 financial documents, along with a brief inventory.
	TEI's own history is of increasing interest to its members. The
	 Babbage Institute (U. Minnesota) might be a possible site for a TEI
	 research archive. A web space for research on the TEI should be
	 reconsidered when the new website is up.
	
	* Donations and CaféPress: MZ will investigate before he leaves as
	 Chair.
	
	
	MZ
	Dec. 31Look into
	 setting up a donation system and a CaféPress store
	
	* "P5\-ready" logo: MZ will follow up on this.
	
	
	MZ
	Dec. 31Check with
	 James Cummings about P5\-ready logo


Outstanding items will be covered in their agenda slots.


Honorary Treasurer
- DP stated that due to professional changes, he may need to step down as
 Honorary Treasurer in 2007\. A new Treasurer will need to be appointed. LB
 proposed that this role be outsourced. Cost is unknown. SB suggested that
 some bookkeepers are willing to do this work pro\-bono for non\-profit
 organizations. 
 DP
next conference
 call Investigate the possibility of hiring a professional
 bookkeeper
SB
next conference call
 Investigate the possibility of a pro\-bono treasurer
Appointment of Nominations Committee for 2007
- RS and JF volunteered to serve. RS will chair the committee, and one other
 member will be invited, probably from the Council. There was some discussion
 of nominating committee procedures, and the optimal number of candidates per
 open slot. RS noted that this is also an issue for other organizations, like
 ACH. DO said that the original list of nominees was heavily British and
 Canadian, and that the committee had to seek out nominees from other
 locations to get better international representation. GP noted that nominees
 had only two weeks to decide to stand for election and submit a bio, and
 that they need more time to decide and prepare. JF will change the standard
 procedures document to indicate that the nominations process should begin in
 May.
 Appointments of officers
- SR and DO expressed interest in serving as Chair. The Board voted via paper
 ballot, and DO was elected by a vote of 5\-4\. The new appointment took effect
 at the end of the meeting. 


JF volunteered to continue serving as Vice\-chair, and was reappointed. CR
 volunteered to continue serving as Secretary, and was reappointed.
 Appointment of editors
- SB's term as editor is up December 31st. He is interested in another
 appointment, and JF indicated that Brown is willing to continue to
 contribute 2/3 of his TEI time. LB is under increasing pressure from Oxford
 given that the TEI reimbursement for his work as editor is nowhere near the
 actual cost. JF has the same concern for Brown. Possible future options were
 discussed: discontinuing reimbursement of the editors and making it
 explicitly a volunteer role; adding more editors to function as a team and
 share the burden; eliminating the editor role altogether and relying on the
 Council to function as an editorial board; paying $30K to one editor instead
 of $15K to two, or paying $30K to the head of the Council to act as an
 editor. 


JF noted that the two editors have historically represented the split
 geographical focus of the Consortium, but JU pointed out that the Council
 now represents that diversity. LB distinguished between the different roles
 of TEI Editor \-\- doing the actual editing of the text of the Guidelines, and
 acting as a public figurehead; the latter role can perhaps be filled by the
 Council chair. DO suggested that we give ourselves a year to revisit
 interrelated issues of Editors, Council, fundraising, etc. 


MZ moved that we reappoint SB for one year. LB again expressed doubt that the
 current funding will be adequate for 2007\. JU suggested using our slight
 income balance to further compensate Oxford for LB's time, and DO suggested
 making it a one\-time payment rather than creating a salary differential. The
 Board agreed to a one\-time payment to Oxford, tentatively $8K. Motion was
 then made for SB to be reappointed for one year under the same arrangement
 as last year, and carried unanimously.
Financials and hosting
- Discussion of host commitments for the coming year. In\-kind contribution
 from Brown and Oxford is more than satisfied by their contribution of the
 editors' time. JF noted that Brown's hosting commitment is now split between
 the Women Writers Project and the Center for Digital Initiatives. Virginia's
 hosting is currently split between the Library and IATH; CR will approach
 other units at Virginia to solicit more in\-kind participation. GP stated
 that Nancy will conduct the same work as in 2006, but will add the training
 component that fell through last year; TEI use is on the rise in France and
 it seems like a good time to organize training and identify the appropriate
 community for it.
2007 Members' Meeting
- The Board discussed of the possibility of hosting a Members' Meeting outside
 of North America or Europe, and reviewed the results of the recent web
 survey on this subject. The survey respondents were primarily from Europe
 and NA, and would prefer to have the meeting in those places. 


Discussion of whether the MM serves the current members, or some other
 function (e.g. recruitment). TEI Day in Kyoto was a good example of a way to
 have events in other parts of the world, but perhaps not as the Members'
 Meeting. The Board should pick up the TEI Day idea and ask colleagues in
 Taipei or NZ if they'd like to host such an event. GP felt that the MM is
 geared toward insiders, and not a great way to introduce newcomers to the TEI; he
 mentioned the Oxford workshop as another good example of a different type of
 meeting for dissemination and recruiting. DO suggested that the MM could be
 expanded to another day, into a full academic program.


The Board discussed the legal requirements for the business meeting. JU noted
 that the bylaws require the membership to meet once per year, with the Board meeting
 scheduled as closely as possible. A quorum of 1/3 of the membership must
 attend. If we were to accept the bid from Taiwan or NZ, we would have to
 make sure we got our quorum via proxy. It might be possible to hold the MM
 electronically and then hold other TEI events in different parts of the
 world, attended by different Board members; however, the advantage of the
 current MM is that it brings people from different geographical regions
 together.


The official bids for the 2007 MM came from New Zealand, Maryland, and
 Taipei. Last\-minute efforts to secure a European bid fell through. The Board
 decided to vote on the bids at hand and Maryland's bid was chosen, with only
 SR dissenting. The ED will contact Susan Schreibman, the local organizer at
 Maryland, to let her know. LB nominated SR to be head of the program
 committee, and he agreed to serve. The Board also decided to contact the
 Taipei organizers about hosting a significant TEI event there, perhaps a
 meeting celebrating the 20th anniversary of the TEI. 
 JF
Dec. 1Contact Professor Fu about
 hosting a TEI 20th anniversary meeting in Taipei.
Financial Reports
- DP reviewed the budget report from 2006 . The change to the staff allocation,
 with the extra $5K going to Brown, was not reflected in the 2006 expenses.
 Member, subscriber, and host fees for 2006 are still outstanding. Account
 reconciliation: $61K. Minor corrections to the budget report were noted and
 will be made to the online reports. The projected surplus for 2006 is
 approximately $8K; this would be a good number to have on the report. 


 The £10K from ALLC for internationalization work will be transferred into the
 TEI coffers. JF said it would be best to disperse the funds to institutions,
 which could further distribute the funds to individuals. An extra $8K of "P5
 push money" will go to Oxford. Discussion of whether the surplus in the
 Council budget will roll over to Council in 2007; DP thinks that Christian
 Wittern has already encumbered it. JF asked if we should budget some money
 for the proposed meeting in Taipei, but no real surplus is available, so
 this will have to be addressed by a fundraising plan. 


 DP suggested that we reimburse travel expenses on a per diem, rather than
 based on receipts; this will simplify paperwork and put a cap on meal
 expenses. Syd volunteered to look at the travel reimbursement guidelines
 published by the State Department and recommend reimbursement guidelines for
 meals based on those. 
 SB
Dec.
 1Suggest reimbursement guidelines for meals based on State Dept.
 recommendations
TEI website
- CR showed [a mockup of the
 new site](http://www.iath.virginia.edu/tei_dev) and asked the Board for feedback. Once the new site is
 complete it will run side by side with the current site for a brief
 transition period before the old site is disabled. Several Board members
 expressed concern about the new site supporting persistent URLs. Because the
 redesign involves a reorganization of content, some URLs are likely to
 change; however, URLs will be preserved for top level sections and essential
 documents, and other URLs will be redirected wherever possible. LB noted
 that the Vault and Applications sections are missing from website mockup.


Shayne Brandon, Amit Kumar, and CR will meet in November to finish setting up
 the backend of the new site. Once that work is complete, CR will develop a
 schedule for the rollout. MZ asked about the reliability of the current site
 and the recent downtime. DP said that there are hardware problems on the
 jefferson server; a memory upgrade is scheduled for early November which may
 help resolve the problem.
Recruiting and fundraising
- DO suggested that we spend a month canvassing ourselves about the
 interrelated questions that the TEI will face in the coming years
 (recruiting and fundraising strategies, the role of the editors, the role of
 host institutions, etc.) and brainstorm some ideas, to be discussed in a
 mid\-December conference call specifically for this purpose. We should expect
 to have this "medium\-term planning" complete by this time next year. 
 DO
Dec. 1Outline the scope of
 the medium\-term planning discussion and the issues to be decided, and
 schedule a conference call for mid\-December.



JF mentioned the NEH\-sponsored [Digital Humanities Start\-Up Grants](http://www.neh.gov/grants/guidelines/digitalhumanitiesstartup.html), which provide $30K and might
 support TEI tool development or related work. The next NEH deadline is April
 2007\. 


A new fundraising committee was discussed. JL and JF volunteered for the
 committee, and RS and Werner Wegstein were suggested as additional members.
 This membership would provide representation from the US, the UK, Canada and
 Europe. The fundraising committee will canvas national granting agencies to see
 what's available in the coming year. The possibilities of grant funding in
 Asia were discussed; it would be worth paying someone (CW?) to work with
 a contact in China on this. 
 
 JU
Dec. 1Prod CW to look for funding
 opportunities in Asia.
 JU asked the group to create a new grant
 opportunities section on the TEI wiki. 
 


DO suggested that we promote grant activity prominently on the main website,
 perhaps on the front page. We could offer to provide grantwriting
 assistance, encourage grant seekers to collaborate with us, and recruit more
 volunteers to assist with grants. JF volunteered to work with CR on this. 
 JF
Dec. 15Draft a page on grant activity
 to send to CR for inclusion on the website, to be foregrounded on the
 main page.



DO mentioned the [ITST research grant](http://www.sshrc.ca/web/apply/program_descriptions/itst/research_e.asp) from SSHRC, a one\-year, $50K grant
 supporting outreach and communication among scholars. He (and RS?) will
 investigate.


JF mentioned the HCI\-Book group grant proposal; they're applying for SSHRC
 funding of about $500K Canadian/year for five years. JF was asked to sit in
 as the TEI "face" \& suggested that the grant application include
 membership for all participating institutions. 


 JF suggested seeking funding for the development of more pre\-canned TEI
 customizations for particular project types (like the MEP, for example). We
 could get funding from disciplinary organizations for this type of work.


JU mentioned TEI Tight as a recruiting strategy. If keyboarding vendors agree
 to a discounted price for TEI members, it could be a powerful incentive to
 join. We can begin approaching vendors as soon as the spec is complete.
Miscellaneous business
- The next regular Board meeting will be a conference call around the second
 week of January. The medium\-term planning discussion will happen sooner,
 around mid\-December


DP will add RS to the Board and Council mailing lists immediately and
 remember to remove MZ on Jan 1\. 


SB will make appropriate updates to the tei\-meet mailing list.


SB will create a schema for the new website.
Adjournment
- The meeting adjourned at 16:35 PST.



