---
layout: page.njk
title: "Minutes of the TEI-C Board Meeting, May 9-10, 2002"
---
# Minutes of the TEI-C Board Meeting, May 9-10, 2002







TEI\-C Board of Directors meeting, May 9\-10, 2002
Minutes v1\.0
Meeting held at Charles University, Prague

David Chesnutt


Attending: Syd Bauman,Editor; Tone Mereta
 Bruvik, Executive Director; Lou Burnard, Editor;
 David Chesnutt, Secretary; Julia Flanders,
 Jan Hajic, Claus Huitfeldt, Sebastian
 Rahtz, Harold Short, John Unsworth, Chair. 


The Board noted
 the absence of Antonio Zampolli, Vice Chair of the Board
 and resolved that John Unsworth prepare an appropriate sentiment expressing
 the Board's best wishes for Professor Zampolli's speedy recovery
 of good health. 
 





Certification
 
 
 
The Chair certified that due notice of the meeting had been given.




 
 
 Approval and Adjustment of Agenda
 
 
 
The Board agreed to Claus Huitfeldt's request to defer
 discussion of the budget until the following day because of last
 minute changes which the directors had not had time to review.
 




The Board agreed to Sebastian Rhatz's recommendation that it
 discuss the relationships between workgroups, the Council, and
 the Board. 




The Board agreed to Harold Short's recommendation to select a
 chair of the nominating committee as part of the discussion about the
 annual meeting. 




The Board agreed to the Chair's recommendation to add the
 following items:
 


* Board activities between now and October;
* Contents of the CD to
 accompany the MLA volume; and
* Coordination of ACH, ALLC
 \& TEI activities.





 
 Review of Minutes
 
 
 
Board members noted the need for several corrections and made
 several suggestions of changes in the wording which were accepted. Lou
 Burnard made the corrections in his master file and will mount the new
 version on the TEI website. 





 
 NEH Work Plan Progress
 
 
 
 
The Chair reported on the status of the Migration Workgroup.
 Chris Ruotolo has agreed to chair and members of the workgroup
 currently include Natalia Smith (UNC Chapel Hill), Tomas Erjavec
 (Jozef Stefan Inst. Ljubljana), Chris Powell (Univ Michigan), Michael
 Popham (Oxford Text Archive), John Walsh (Indiana Univ), Frans Wiering
 (Thesaurus Musicarum Italicarum), Alejandro Bia (Miguel de Cervantes
 Digital Library). The group is currently planning to meet in October
 2002 and May 2003\. Because the NEH grant currently has an end date of
 May 30, 2003, the Chair agreed to ask NEH for an extension to allow
 the workgroup to complete its tasks.
 


The Chair noted that the work plan for Year 2 has been
 revised in light of the Council's recommendations. Lou Burnard
 volunteered to develop a more detailed plan for the Migration
 Workgroup.
 


The choice between focusing on an analytical survey of the
 migration needs of the TEI community or developing a set of
 practical recommendations was discussed extensively. The
 consensus of the Board is that NEH would prefer practical
 guidelines with some commentary on the general needs of the TEI
 community. (A comprehensive analytical survey was viewed as
 being beyond the current resources of the NEH grant.)
 


At the request of the Migration Workgroup chair, the Board
 considered the group of the names submitted as potential members of the
 group. The Board suggested that Jessica Hekman and Tobias Rischer be
 added to the group. John Unsworth agreed to contact Mulberry
 Technologies to see if one of the Mulberry experts could serve on the
 workgroup. 





 
 Publication/distribution Plans
 
 
 
 
The Chair circulated the first copy of the new
 two\-volume edition of the TEI Guidelines (P4\) which was reviewed
 briefly by the Board. Unsworth reported that P4 was on its way
 to the University Press of Virginia. The press has agreed to
 handle marketing, distribution and order fulfillment. The terms
 are $7 per set for domestic shipping and handling and $9 per set
 for international shipping and handling. 




The discussion next turned to on\-line versions of the revised
 edition of P4\. Burnard and Rahtz pointed out that an HTML
 version is currently available to the public and that a PDF
 version is available to members and subscribers in the Members
 Only area of the TEI Web site. After reviewing a variety of
 options, the Board agreed that the HTML version should remain in
 the public area of the Web site and that chapter\-by\-chapter PDFs
 should be available to members and subscribers in the Members
 Only area. The PDF files are intended to facilitate those who may
 wish to print out individual chapters for distribution to the
 classes or for other purposes. 




Further discussion of PDF publication led to a decision to
 offer chapter two of the Guidelines, "A Gentle Introduction..."
 as a separate publication in PDF format in the public area of the
 TEI Web site, along with the TEI Lite tutorial TEU U5, because of
 the wide\-spread demand for these documents.
 




Pricing the two\-volume set led to a discussion of
 costs and the market for the publication. In the end, the Board
 set the price at $90 per set for non\-members and $60 per set for
 members and subscribers. The Board agreed that members should
 receive one set free and then be allowed to purchase additional
 sets at $60 each. Subscribers will not receive a free set, but
 will be allowed to purchase the Guidelines at the member price of
 $60\.




Unsworth reported that 500 copies of the
 two\-volume set cost $$13,980 or approximately $28 per set. Adding
 an average of $8 for shipping, handling, etc. brought the base
 cost to $36 per set. Consequently, sales at $60 per set will
 bring about $24 income per set; sales at $90 per set will being
 about $54 per set. 




A wide ranging discussion of second\-party
 publication of all or parts of the Guidelines brought forth the
 following decisions.
 


* Permission is not required to mirror the HTML version of
 the Guidelines from the TEI\-C Web site.
* Permission is not
 required to print and distribute one PDF chapter of the Guidelines for
 academic use.
* Permission is not required to republish the
 Guidelines in their entirety from any TEI source as long as no changes
 are made and an attribution of the source is published.
* Permission is required to republish the Guidelines with
 enhancements in any form of publication. Publishers will be requested
 to provide copies of same to the TEI\-C.




Unsworth reported the Andrew W. Mellon
 Foundation has funded and the MLA has agreed to publish a volume on
 electronic text editing which will be edited by Unsworth and
 Burnard. The volume is co\-sponsored by the Consortium and the
 Committee on Scholarly Editing of the MLA. Also planned is a CD to
 accompany the volume. The preliminary selection of items is based on
 the training CD which Oxford is preparing for its TEI summer school
 and would include such items as:
 


* an HTML version of P4
* an XML version of P4
* a Microsoft Reader version of P4
* a PDF of Chapter Two of the Guidelines
* The TEI and TEI Lite DTDs
* XSL stylesheets keyed to the DTDs
* Software such as Emacs, Anastasia, or Xmetal customizations


 Other items to be included will be determined by the editors in
 consultation with the Training subcommittee of the TEI Council.
 
 
 

After an extensive discussion on marketing P4, the following actions were taken:
 


* Flanders volunteered to draft a press release
* Burnard volunteered to have the press release revised and
 distributed by the press office of Oxford University
* Huitfeldt volunteered to have the release translated into other
 languages
* The other hosts agreed to have their respective
 press offices distribute the release
* Rahtz agreed to
 prepare order forms to be mounted on the TEI Web site
* June 1 was set as the deadline for the above work to be
 completed
* June 15 was set as the official publication
 date for P4





 
 Host Activity Reports 

The Board accepted the host activity
 reports as submitted. The Board agreed that the current level of
 detail in the reports is appropriate and will be useful in compiling
 year\-end reports for the annual meeting and for funding agencies like
 NEH. 




Bruvik agreed to compile the hosts' quarterly
 financial reports which will be sent back to the hosts for their
 sign\-off. 




Unsworth agreed to mount the results of the TEI needs survey
 conducted by Brown as a database on the Virginia TEI server.
 




 
 
 Recruitment 
 
 
 
Unsworth emphasized the importance of recruiting new members,
 noting that one\-third of current budget is funded by the NEH grant.
 To facilitate recruitment outside Europe and the U.S., Unsworth
 requested that board members send him a list of their contacts in
 Asia, Central America and South America. 




The Board agreed that "match\-making" between the hosts and
 scholars and students would be a good way to promote the use of
 the Guidelines as well as membership in the consortium. 





 
 
 Members Annual Meeting 
 
 
 
The following schedule was
 adopted:
 


* Oct. 10: Migration
 Workgroup and MLA Editors meet
* Oct. 11: Members meeting (presentations)
* Oct. 12: Members meeting in morning only
 (elections)
* Oct. 12: Board of Directors meeting
 (afternoon)




The Board nominated Peter Robinson to chair the programme committee
 as well as Martin Mueller who is making the local arrangements
 for the meeting. Syd Bauman also agreed to serve on the
 committee.




Julia Flanders agreed to serve as chair of the nominating
 committee which had been appointed by the Board during its meeting in
 Pisa. (Other members are Harold Short, Lou Burnard, and Jan Hajic.)
 The Board agreed to review the nominees and make recommendations. The
 final slate is to be selected by the committee.


Three seats on the Board of Directors and four seats on the
 Council will be filled. Representatives of the sponsoring
 organizations (ACH, ALLC, ACL) are rotating off the Board as are the
 four one\-year appointees selected by the Board last year.)
 




An informal announcement of the Members Annual Meeting will be
 made during the ALLC/ACH conference in July. Unsworth noted that we
 need to have some of the speakers lined up so they can included in the
 announcement. Chesnutt suggested that Charles Cullen, President of
 the Newberry Library, be considered. The library is hosting our
 sessions and Cullen is a former editor of the Jefferson Papers and
 serves on the National Historical Publications and Records Commission,
 a U.S. agency which has supported the extension of the TEI Guidelines
 via the Model Editions Partnership.




The Board agreed to reduce the conference fee for the Annual
 Meeting from the $100 projection in the 2002 budget to $50, the cost
 of becoming a subscriber to the consortium. Inasmuch as no fees are to
 be charged to members and subscribers, the Board viewed setting the
 fee at $50 would encourage individuals to become subscribers and to
 take a more active role in the consortium. 


Huitfeldt noted that $1,600 is currently budgeted for four speakers
 (an average of $400 per speaker).
 


The Board agreed that workgroup reports should be given, but
 that the consortium was not in a position to make travel
 reimbursements. Reports are to be limited to 15 minutes each. 




The official notification of the annual members meeting needs
 to go out between Aug. 12, 2002, and Sept. 20, 2002, to conform with
 the consortium bylaws.
 





 
 ALLC/ACH 2002 Open Meeting
 
 
 
 
After an extensive discussion of options, the Board agreed to
 include the following presentations during the TEI open meeting.
 


* Report on P4 and P5 by Flanders
* Annual
 meeting plans, by Unsworth
* Work group progress, by
 chairs, (John to contact chairs)
* Report on training, by
 Rockwell
* Report on membership, by Huitfeldt




Burnard and Rahtz agreed to prepare a P4 CD to be distributed
 at the open meeting and Burnard volunteered to absorb the costs. The
 Board decided to distribute the CD at the open meeting rather than
 including it in the registration packets. \[An open question is whether
 or not to send the CD to members not present at the ALLC/ACH meeting.]
 




The Board agreed that Bruvik should chair the open
 meeting if she is available. Tone Mereta will be taking maternity
 leave sometime this summer when she and her husband adopt a
 child. (The Board expressed its hearty congratulations at this
 news.)




The Board reviewed its previous marketing plans and noted
 that the new TEI brochure, the on\-line order forms, and the CD
 need to be completed before the ALLC/ACH conference.
 


A discussion of making available review copies resulted in a
 decision to generally limit the number of review copies to ten
 (10\) unless the executive director feels that additional copies
 would benefit the consortium. Members of the Board are to make
 suggestions on the placement of the initial review copies.





 
 Financial Reports
 
 
 
Claus Huitfeldt introduced the revised budget, noting that
 income for 2001 was $250,271\.71 and expenses were $237,532\.01 with
 $12,739\.70 carried forward into 2002\. He noted that in the projected
 budget for 2002 the consortium continues to rely on the NEH grant,
 host contributions, and increases in membership; he also noted that
 the consortium needs to either increase membership revenue or find new
 grant funds in order to make the projected budget for 2003\.
 




A general discussion of the budget focused on possible
 reductions in costs. The Board agreed to consider holding future
 Council and Board meetings at the same place on successive days in
 order to lower travel costs. At the conclusion of the discussion, the
 Board unanimously agreed that the Chair prepare a resolution of thanks
 to the host institutions for their generous support of the consortium.
 





 
 Future Grant Plans
 
 
 
John Unsworth noted that private foundations like Ford and
 Carnegie are interested in fostering international exchanges and
 suggested that they might be a potential source for funding some of
 the TEI's international travel. 




The Board discussed the possibility of having the consortium
 work with other projects which are supported by NEH. Examples given
 included:
 


* Assistance in preparing grant applications through a
 free service
* Assistance in developing
 discipline\-specific TEI extensions
* Training and consultation during the work of a project




David Chesnutt raised the idea of having the consortium serve
 as an archive for discipline specific TEI extensions developed by
 projects like the Model Editions Partnership (MEP). The partnership
 has developed SGML and XML DTDs designed to meet the needs of
 documentary editions of historical documents and is scheduled to end
 in the summer of 2003\.
 


Chesnutt pointed out that if the consortium became the custodian of
 the MEP DTDs, many of the individual projects using the DTDs
 would be likely candidates for membership in the consortium.


The Board agreed in principle with the proposal and details
 for the arrangements are to be worked out during the coming year.
 




A discussion of European funding followed. Jan Hajic agreed to
 contact Zampolli to discuss the possibilities of funding under the EU
 6th Framework (cultural heritage)and Harold Short agreed to look into
 funding from the European Science Foundation to support travel to
 Council meetings. 
 





 
 Workgroups and Subcommittees
 
 
 
 
Burnard reported that the Workgroup on Character Encoding is
 making good progress and that Document BM04 reflects the revisions in
 the workgroup charge as agreed by the workgroup on May 1, 2002\.
 




A general discussion of the relationships between the Council
 and the Board led to the following decision. Workgroups will report to
 Council, Council will report to the Board. (Workgroups will not report
 directly to the Board.)
 




Lou then opened the discussion of EDW74, the draft charge for
 the Standoff and XLink Workgroup. John Unsworth gave David Durand's
 report on the workgroup which the Board accepted without further
 discussion.
 




Geoffrey Rockwell's report on the Council's Training
 Subcommittee (see ???) led to a decision to eliminate the Board's
 Member Services Subcommittee in favor of the training
 subcommittee. The Board also agreed that the consortium should issue
 "requests for proposals" (RFPs) to identify individuals and groups
 which may wish to have their TEI training courses certified by the
 consortium. The training subcommittee is to be asked to recommend
 specific specifications for the RFPs.
 




The Workgroup on Manuscript Description. Two recommendations have been
 put forward. Matthew Driscoll and Merrilee Proffitt are to be asked at a
 June conference call to undertake the task of reconciling the
 recommendations. Jan Hajic suggested they invite TEI manuscript
 projects to provide input.
 





 
 Board Actions 
 
 
 
 Action items for Board members before October members meeting:
 
 


May 17* John Unsworth: extension of NEH
 grant
No date* John Unsworth: contact
 Mulberry Technologies for assistance
May 17* John Unsworth: ask Virginia press about shipping
May 23* Julia Flanders: prepare draft of
 press release
May 30* Lou
 Burnard: prepare final press release
June 15* Claus Huitfeldt: prepare translations of press
 release
June 15* John Unsworth:
 make user survey browsable
No date* John Unsworth?: ask workgroups and subcommittees if they want to
 report at ALLC/ACH 2002
June 1* All:
 provide Tone Merete with information for brochure
June 1* Tone Merete Bruvik: ask Council to comment
 on brochure content
June 1* Tone Merete
 Bruvik: determine deadline for including TEI material in ALLC/ACH
 folders
July 1* Tone Merete Bruvik:
 deliver brochures
June 1* Lou Burnard: prepare CDs and bring to ALLC/ACH
July 1* Syd Bauman: solicit suggestions for P5
June 1* Harold Short: ask Wilhelm Ott if he would
 like to speak at the TEI luncheon
May 17* Jan Hajic: talk to Bill Kretschmar about a pre\-conference
 workshop
Sept 1* David Chesnutt:
 talk to NHPRC about subvening TEI memberships for editorial projects
May 17 or Mid June* David
 Chesnutt: prepare minutes
June 15* Julia Flanders: draft for free consulting on grant
 applications
July 1* Harold
 Short: contact European Science Foundation re funding
May 17* Jan Hajic: talk to Antonio about EU
 6thFrame funding
May 17* Lou
 Burnard: contact European Cultural Network re funding
June 23* Claus Huitfeldt: explore European and
 Japanese foundation funding
May 17* Harold Short: look into European deposit libraries
June 1* Julia Flanders: communicate decisions to
 training subcommittee
June 1* Syd
 Bauman: Ask Peter Robinson to chair program committee for ACH/ALLC
 2003
June 1* Sebastian Rahtz/Lou
 Burnard: Rearrange P4 into PDF chapters
June
 1* Sebastian Rahtz/Lou Burnard: Prepare order forms for
 P4
June 1* Sebastian Rahtz/Lou
 Burnard: Prepare Chapter 2 for separate publication
June 1* Claus Huitfeldt: contact Christian Wittern
 re Taiwan foundations
June 1* Claus Huitfeldt: prepare revised budget
No date* John Unsworth, Claus Huitfeldt, Tone
 Merete Bruvik: organize members business meeting
No date* Julia Flanders: present RFP for training at members
 meeting
Sept 1* Executive director: make
 official announcement of members meeting
before June 30* Jan Hajic: conference call to Council re schemas,
 P5,and workgroups
Aug 1* Julia Flanders: get recommendations from Board for nominees and
 submit nominations to Board
Sept 1* Julia Flanders: announce nominations




 
 Publications
 
 
 
 
Harold Short announced that the Office of
 Humanities Computing has established a series on practical handbooks
 and that Peter Robinson is revising his book on digitization and will
 revise the book on transcription later.




The Board reiterated its desire to have Chapter 2 of P4 issued as a
 separate publication.
 





 
 Coordination of ACH, ALLC, \& TEI activities. 
 
 
 
 
John Unsworth initiated a discussion on a possible
 collaboration with the Association for Computers and the Humanities
 and the Association for Literary and Linguistic Computing. Noting that
 all are small organizations, he suggested that we search for ways of
 sharing resources and consider the idea of creating an umbrella
 organization which would encompass all three organizations. Harold
 Short seconded Unsworth's proposal. Unsworth and Short agreed to
 report back to the Board at the annual members meeting.






