---
layout: page.njk
title: "Minutes of the TEI-C Board Teleconference, 17 December 2008"
---
# Minutes of the TEI-C Board Teleconference, 17 December 2008







TEI\-C Board of Directors teleconference, 17 December
 2008

Chris Ruotolo


Certification of the meeting* The meeting began at approximately 13:00 GMT, with the following members
 present: Lou Burnard (LB), Julia Flanders (JF), Bertrand Gaiffe (BG), John
 Lavagnino (JL), Daniel O'Donnell (DO), Daniel Pitti (DP), Sebastian Rahtz
 (SR), Laurent Romary (LR), Chris Ruotolo (CR), Susan Schreibman (SS), and
 Christian Wittern (CW).
Approval of agenda* The [meeting agenda](/Board/bm31a.xml) was approved.
Review of minutes from previous meeting* The minutes from the last meeting were corrected to indicate current
 spendable funds of $10\-$15K.
Funding overview* The TEI currently has about $40K. We can safely spend about $15K. We'll have
 a more precise financial picture by June 30th, and can adjust then.
Review of proposals for funding* [Community Outreach Program (COP)](/board/tei-board-meeting-31-2008-board-meeting-addendum-community-outreach-program/) and Community Outreach Coordinator (COC) (JF)+ JF revised the proposals to address concerns raised at the last Board
	 meeting. The Outreach Program is now proposed as a way to provide
	 consultancy, technical support, and advice to the TEI community by
	 1\) providing a list of consultants; 2\) offering consultancy grants
	 to small or underfunded projects; and 3\) providing assistance with
	 grant proposals. The proposed cost is $15K.
	
	
	The Outreach Coordinator is now a volunteer position. The Coordinator
	 would maintain and recruit consultants, make sure they're listed
	 accurately, publicize the grants program and issue calls for
	 proposals, and help grantees publish their results. If the position
	 were eventually funded, it would be even more effective, but in this
	 budget situation it makes sense to spend the money elsewhere. The
	 proposed cost is now $0K.
	[Credit card payments](/board/tei-board-meeting-31-2008-board-meeting-addendum-credit-card-proposal/) (DO)+ DO described his proposal to set up a credit card payment system,
	 which could handle membership and subscriber fees and anything else
	 that involves money. This would allow us to automate most of our
	 membership activities. The estimated cost is roughly $3\-$4K, which
	 includes setup costs and fees for each transaction.
	[Tiered subscriber fees](/board/agenda-for-tei-board-conference-call-wednesday-december-17-2008-2/) (DO)+ Proposal to establish three different levels of subscribers, and
	 charge each a different fee.
	[Administrative assistant](/board/tei-board-meeting-31-2008-board-meeting-addendum-central-admin-assistant-manager/) (DO)+ Proposal to hire a central administrative person for \~8 hours per
	 week to help the Board get its work done. Because we already spend a
	 considerable amount on administrative work, we would need to examine
	 how the work proposed here would overlap with work being done at
	 U.Va. and Nancy. The estimated cost is roughly $3\-$4K.
	[Strategic travel](/board/tei-board-meeting-31-2008-board-meeting-addendum-strategic-travel/) (DO)+ Proposal to set aside funds for outreach\-related travel. Last year we
	 spent $2K to send representatives to conferences in Russia and
	 Morocco, as well as a DLF meeting. This year's proposal is for
	 $2K.
	[Additional Council meeting](/tei-board-meeting-31-2008-board-meeting-addendum-strategic-travel-2/) (LR)+ LR proposed that we fund an additional face\-to\-face Council meeting.
	 Each time the Council meets in person, more work gets done, and the
	 outreach impact of "TEI Day" meetings is enormous. Council tries to
	 find local funds to defray meeting costs wherever possible. There
	 are already strong proposals in the works for meetings in Lyon and
	 Dublin. Estimated cost is $17K, a ballpark figure based on the costs
	 of the last meeting.
	
	
	CW noted that the Council used to receive a fixed budget and was free
	 to spend it as they wanted. We could consider that model again. It
	 would help to know exactly what LR wants to achieve at the proposed
	 second meeting.
	[SIG grants](/tei-board-meeting-31-2008-board-meeting-addendum-strategic-travel-4/) (SS)+ SS proposed several small grants to fund the activities of the SIGs
	 \-\- for example, 4 grants of $500\-$1,000 each. The proposed cost is
	 $3\-$4K.
	[Members Meeting funding](/tei-board-meeting-31-2008-board-meeting-addendum-strategic-travel-3/) (SS)+ In the past, we let any number of people from member institutions
	 attend the MM for free. Now that we have a conference model and
	 costs are higher, we may need to limit each institution to 3 free
	 registrations and charge after that. Alternately, the Board could
	 cover the gap by offering more conference support funds to the local
	 host. The proposed cost is $2K (in addition to the $5K provided in
	 the past).
Discussion of proposals* In total, there were \~$50K worth of funding requests for the available $15K.


The subscriber proposal was dropped as irrelevant. The Outreach Coordinator
 proposal was dropped because no funds were requested.



Grants and travel: The Board debated keeping distinct
 amounts of funding for the SIG grants, outreach grants, and strategic
 travel, vs. lumping the funds together. In the end, the Board decided to
 allocate $3K each for the outreach and SIG grants, and not to set aside any
 funds for strategic travel.



Credit card and admin. asst.: SR
 suggested that the credit card system should be cost neutral or cost saving,
 and that it shouldn't come out of the $15K. JF suggested that a subgroup
 look at the credit card and administrative assistant proposals, and the
 impacts they might have on the administrative work at Nancy and U.Va. BG
 noted that much of the administrative money that goes to Nancy is actually
 spent on Roma development. DO, VL, and DP agreed to examine this situation
 in detail, with the goal that any implementation of the proposals should be
 cost neutral or cost saving. 



Members' Meeting: Now that the MM is a true conference,
 it could be bringing in revenue. We don't currently charge for the
 conference; we ask people to join, but that money doesn't go toward the
 conference expenses. DP suggested a registration fee for all conference
 attendees (maybe $90\), with discounts for members and subscribers. This
 would be a tangible member benefit. A subcommittee will be appointed to look
 at the issues raised in the proposal. For now, no additional MM funds will
 be committed.



Council Meeting: A Council meeting typically costs
 $17K\-$20K. To keep costs down, the Council would have to continue meeting
 around London and Paris, where the bulk of the members are located. The
 Council has never met in North America; this may undermine its outreach
 function. Motion to offer Council an additional $9K this year, for a total
 of $27K. The Council can spend the money however it chooses \-\- on one
 meeting, or on two, if they can find additional funds.
Final vote on proposals* The Board voted to award an additional $9K to the Council, and $3K each for
 the community outreach and SIG grant proposals. The application process will
 be finalized later. The details about how the grants will work, as well as
 the volunteer COC position, will be discussed on the email list.
Adjournment* The meeting adjourned at 15:06 GMT.




