---
layout: page.njk
title: "Minutes for TEI Board Conference Call: Monday May                     18, 2009, 1400 (London)"
---
# Minutes for TEI Board Conference Call: Monday May                     18, 2009, 1400 (London)







Minutes for TEI Board Conference Call:
 Monday, May 18, 2009 14:00 (London)

Daniel O'Donnell



Minutes
 
 * 14:09 Meeting Certified:
	+ Present:
		- Lou BurnardLB
		- Veronika LuxVL
		- Daniel O'DonnellDO
		- Daniel PittiDP
		- Susan SchreibmanSS
		- Christian WitternCW
		 (from 1500 on due to time conversion issues. 
		 DO to ensure that future meetings are
		 announced in UTC as well as or instead of London
		 time.
* 14:14 [Minutes
 Approved](/Board/bm32.xml)
* 14:15 Reports Comment and Questions
	+ [Chair
	 (DO)](/Board/bm33a.xml#chair)
	DO gave oral summary
	+ Conference (DO)
	Conference planning is proceding apace. Call for papers just
	 about due. Plan to open registration relatively soon if rate
	 proposal and shopping cart system for registrations is
	 approved.
	+ Membership (VL) and Treasurer (DP)
	Receipts are running only about $4k slower than last year; not
	 quite sure if this is because of economy or simply vaguaries of
	 payment ($4k could even be a single host/tier I member being
	 slower with payment). DP noted that we just received a statement
	 from Italian publisher. We are about 7 Euros short of the point
	 at which they issue cheques Publisher wants to remainder or pulp
	 remaining copies.
	
	
		- DP and VL
		 to coordinate their lists and provide list of paid up
		 memberships by email in the next week or so.
		DP to provide financial
		 statement by email in next week or so
		DO, VL,
		 and CR to investigate real time or
		 cronjob updating list of members from member database
		 \[as part of migration to shopping cart software in
		 keeping with subsequent motion]
	+ Council (DO)
	DO briefly mentioned TEI day and council meeting in Lyon; noted
	 that council approved Tite which is now before the vendors as
	 part of TEI\-Mellon grant.
	+ Web Committee (DO/LB)
	DO noted that some council members have joined committee and that
	 council would like to have more responsibility for running the
	 Vault\-\-especially as part of system for providing permanent URLs
	 to revisions of the Guidelines. Noted that this ties in with
	 migration of the Vault (archive) which is a long standing
	 desideratum. LB commented on the three different aspects of the
	 Vault migration: preservation of archives, permant URLs, and
	 recovery of orphaned and lost material. Migration is a long
	 outstanding action item for the web committee. DO indicated that
	 he has been instructed by Council to ensure that Vault is
	 prepared for use of permanent URLs, an instruction that implies
	 the other aspects of this migration also need to happen; intends
	 to keep this issue active as an ex officio member during this
	 Spring and Summer.
	 DO to ensure that Vault
	 migration is handled as a priority by the expanded web
	 committee
	+ [Nominations (CW)](/Board/bm33a.xml#nominations)
	Report was submitted as document. No questions.
	+ [SIG
	 (SS)](/Board/bm33a.xml#grants)
	SS supplemented written report with brief emphasis on success of
	 grant programme.
* 14:30 [Conference Fees](/Board/bm33a.xml#conference) (DO)
Discussion concentrated on issues of language and generalisability.
 Generally felt that the language as originally submitted was somewhat
 unclear and not quite what DO actually meant. But broad support for rate
 structure as long as attendance at actual business portion of the
 members meeting was free\-\-probably a legal requirement anyway. Issue
 also came up about whether the full price should include automatic
 subscription. Decided that this was a bad idea both for book\-keeping and
 fairness reasons: paying $90 at the door for a subscription and
 admission would be cheaper than buying a subscription and conference
 admission separately\-\-this penalises people who maintain subscription.
 Consensus was that we should keep the conference and membership
 therefore separate. Two motions:


	+ Approved proposed rate ($90 full/$45 discount) schedule for
	 Ann Arbor with the full price only reflecting conference
	 attendance, not automatic purchase of membership/subscription as
	 well.
	+ Asked DO to propose better language for new rate structure and
	 how it is to be implemented by future local organisers keeping
	 in mind potential for cost of living differences and
	 inflation
* 14:50 [Proposal for Publications](/Board/bm33a.xml#publishing) (SS)
Brief discussion of proposal, including fact that TEI is already a
 publisher. Final motion:


	+ Approved proposal that SS should strike committee to
	 investigate publication; terms of reference to be derived by SS
	 from the proposal itself
* 15:15 [Webstore/Credit Cards](/Board/bm33a.xml#creditcards) (DO)
Presentation on various options; discussion of need and necessity. Final motion:


	+ DO to prepare specific proposal for webstore implementation
	 using Zencart and hosting as suggested in his submission.
* 15:37 Future Meetings
DO to raise issue by email.
* 15:40 Adjournment





