---
layout: page.njk
title: "TEI Board Minutes: 2012-11-10 & 2012-11-11"
---
# TEI Board Minutes: 2012-11-10 & 2012-11-11





 TEI Board Minutes for Saturday,
 2012\-11\-10, 12:30\-14:00
 
 
 Attendees
 
 * Marjorie Burghart (MB)
* Lou Burnard (LB)
* James Cummings (JC)
* Laura Mandell (LM)
* Martin Mueller (MM)
* Elena Pierazzo (EP),
 Chair
* David Sewell (DS)
* John Unsworth (JU),
 Treasurer
* John Walsh (JW),
 Secretary




 Posted Agenda
 
 * TEIJ: copy editing and
 multilingualism
* Website: specs, host
* TAPAS (possibly to be moved on
 the Sunday session)




 TEI\-J
 
 * Board agrees that it does not
 approve of idea of whole issue
 devoted to another language.
 Concerns of
 tokenization/ghettoization of
 the non\-English issue. Board
 would prefer to accept the
 occasional non\-English article.
* Approve to continue $1000 per
 issue for copy\-editing. TEI\-J
 will continue to submit and
 annual budget/report detailing
 how the money has been
 spent.




 Website
 
 * Discussion postponed until
 Sunday, 2012\-11\-11\.




 
 Back\-office \& financial
 issues
 
 * Further discussion of
 back\-office issues that JU
 related in earlier Business
 Meeting.
* JU provided more details on
 the functionality of the Apricot
 system for managing
 membership.




 TEI Endowment
 
 * Board discussed using current
 TEI funds to start a TEI
 endowment. The purpose of the
 endowment would be to ensure the
 longevity of the Guidelines and
 to fund Council activities in
 perpetuity. If other funding
 streams were eliminated, Council
 work could continue with income
 from the endowment.
* Estimated that TEI has
 approximately $200,000 that
 could be used to start an
 endowment.
* Discussed possibility of using
 the creation of an endowment as
 a way to get larger one\-time
 contributions from stakeholder
 institutions.
* Action item (JU):
 Investigate issues related to
 starting an endowment and the
 income that could reasonably be
 expected from the endowment.




 TAPAS
 
 * Discussion postponed until
 Sunday, 2012\-11\-11\.





 TEI Board Minutes for Sunday,
 2012\-11\-11, 8:30\-15:30
 
 
 Attendees
 
 * Marjorie Burghart (MB)
* Lou Burnard (LB)
* James Cummings (JC)
* Laura Mandell (LM)
* Martin Mueller (MM)
* Elena Pierazzo (EP),
 Chair
* David Sewell (DS)
* John Unsworth (JU),
 Treasurer
* John Walsh (JW),
 Secretary




 Posted Agenda
 
 
 08:30–12:30
 
 * Governance: Martin M.
 proposal
* Members: fees and
 roles




 13:00–15:30
 
 * The back office: the TEI
 shop, collection of membership
 fees, record keeping,
 etc.
* Outreach
* TAPAS (if not dealt on
 Saturday)
* Any other business



Meeting begins approximately
 8:30am local time.


 Governance
 
 * Discussed proposal to
 streamline Board and Council,
 reducing members of each body,
 and reducing travel
 costs.
* Agreement to reduce Board to 5
 elected members and Council to
 10 elected members.
* Agreement to appoint officers
 from among elected members (for
 both Board and Council).
* The exception to this is the
 Board Treasurer, who may be a
 non\-elected individual.



 Selection of Board \&
 Council Chairs.
 
 * Each body shall select its
 own chair from among the
 elected members.
* If one body cannot select
 a chair, the other body shall
 appoint a chair, preferably an
 elected member, but optionally
 a non\-elected individual.
 E.g., If the Council is unable
 to select a Chair from among
 its own members, the Board may
 appoint a Council member to
 serve as Council Chair. If an
 elected Council member is not
 willing or able to serve as
 Chair, then the Board may
 appoint another (non\-elected)
 individual to serve as Council
 Chair.




 Partners
 
 * Agreement to abolish the
 role of non\-voting partner
 board members, which was
 generally seen by both the
 Board and Partners to be an
 unsatisfactory mechanism for
 recognizing the contributions
 of partners and receiving
 input and feedback from
 partners.




 Board appointments to Council
 \& Board/Council
 Communications
 
 * As discussed above, Board
 will no longer appoint the
 Council Chair, except in cases
 where the Council is unable to
 appoint their own
 Chair.
* Board will continue to
 have the option to appoint a
 "Board Representative" to
 appoint a non\-voting Board
 representative to the Council.
 Currently this is a voting
 position, so the non\-voting
 status is a change.
* Council Chair will
 automatically be subscribed to
 Board email list. Board Chair
 automatically subscribed to
 Council email list.
* Joint Council\-Board email
 list for all members of
 Council and Board will be
 instituted (DS)




 Travel costs
 
 * Discussion of ceasing
 subsidized Board travel.
* Concerns about excluding
 participation from less
 well\-funded
 individuals/institutions.
* Decided to continue
 subsidy (with recently
 instituted limits).
* Recognition that the TEI's
 priority is funding for
 Council. Funding for Board is
 secondary and will be further
 reduced or eliminated if
 necessary due to budgetary
 constraints.
* TEI will encourage elected
 members of both Board and
 Council to seek support from
 home institution and to use
 funding from other sources for
 travel before requesting
 support from TEI.




 Discussion Treasurer as paid
 position with additional duties
 (e.g., communications).
 
 * Since Board is now paying
 for bookkeeping services and
 JU is instituting new
 infrastructure for managing
 membership, it was decided to
 postpone discussion of this
 issue. The hope is that the
 paid bookkeeper and new
 infrastructure will reduce the
 workload and eliminate the
 need for a paid staff position
 devoted to these tasks.




 Additional Discussion of
 partnerships
 
 * General discussion of
 abolishing/redefining the role
 of partner.
* Concern that TEI needs to
 pay for essential services
 (rather than rely on partners)
 or be in a bind when volunteer
 effort goes away.
* Also need a way to
 recognize those institutions
 (e.g. Oxford) providing
 
 extra
 services.





 Members: fees and roles
 
 * Discussed renaming membership
 levels using vocabulary common
 for other charities that list
 donors, e.g."Sustaining Member"
 for extra high level of support.
 In any case, there was unanimous
 agreement to do away with the
 "numbered div" nomenclature for
 membership levels.
* Those institutions
 contributing at the highest
 level (or providing a high level
 of service to the TEI?) would
 have the option to have their
 logos listed on TEI homepage and
 in other venues (e.g.,
 conference programs,
 Guidelines?)
* Membership levels should not
 be keyed to size of institution
 or size of economy but to an
 institution's (or project's)
 choice on contribution
 level.
* Allow members to include a
 "TEI Member" badge on relevant
 web pages and
 publications.
* LM suggested the possibility
 of some sort of peer\-review or
 badge of TEI Conformance as a
 service for members.



 Brainstorming on membership
 and current and potential
 benefits for members:
 
 * Discount on ACCESS
 TEI
* Discount on TAPAS
* Discounts on other
 services not provided by TEI
 (Brown workshops, Summer
 Workshops, etc.)
* Arianna (other Europeans)
 to work on memberships from
 Europe.
* Discount to
 conference.
* oxygen Discount
* explore Saxon discounts
* Allow members to sponsor
 sessions at the
 conference?
* Ways to increase
 membership income:
* Target lower level
 support. If a member decides
 to leave, try to negotiate
 membership at a lower
 levee.
* Target Europe, esp.
 Germany
* Individual memberships:
 $50 individuals / $25
 students
* New badges for members and
 sponsors
* Vote for individual
 members? After some debate,
 agreement that all members
 (institutions at all levels
 and individuals) should all
 get an equal vote. General
 feeling was that the vote is
 not something coveted by
 institutions, and institutions
 will not mind if individuals
 get an equal vote.
* Action item
 (MM): to survey some
 library directors about TEI
 membership issues.





 The back office
 
 * Discussed on 2012\-11\-10 and
 replaced on today's agenda with
 a discussion of the TEI web
 site.




 The TEI web site
 
 * Internationalization.
 Unanimous agreement, in
 principle, that TEI site should
 be internationalized, but
 concern over practicality,
 maintenance, sustainability.
* Volunteer effort vs. paid
 model. We could probably find
 volunteers to do some
 translation work, but volunteer
 model may not be sustainable,
 especially with frequent updates
 to TEI content.
* Some automated notification
 system to notify volunteer (or
 paid) translators about changes
 may help in keeping up with
 content changes.
* Three major issues to consider
 in migrating site from
 Virginia:
* hosting (possible ADHO
 solution discussed)
* architecture \&
 design
* Suggestions for this piece
 included developing specs and
 issuing an RFP (to TEI community
 and/or to professional web
 design firms)
* migration
* Web site working group:
* David S. and John U.
* Action item (JC):
 JC will ask for one or two
 people from Council to serve on
 web site working group.
* Action item (Web site
 working group, DS, JU, et
 al.): Updated web site
 specs for January.
* Usability studies on web
 site:
* Action item (EP \&
 LM): Contact Claire
 Warick (EP) and/or Johanna
 Drucker (LM) about possible
 usability studies on TEI web
 sit




 Outreach
 
 
 Tools
 
 * Update list of
 tools
* Outreach to tool
 developers
* Marjorie talks about some
 skepticism towards TEI from
 developer community, e.g., TEI
 "too complicated",
 interoperability issues
* Lou does not disagree
 totally with Marjorie
 :\-)
* Get more TEI tools into
 Bamboo dirt wiki (and similar
 venues)




 TEI Getting Started
 Guide
 
 * Action item
 (EP): Ask Arianna if
 she will lead group to
 complete the TEI Getting
 Started guide. (Arianna was
 involved in initial work on
 the Guide.)




 Training
 
 * Action item
 (JW): Create
 comprehensive list of online
 and in\-person training
 opportunities.
* Action item
 (JW): Survey of syllabi
 that include TEI (useful also
 for Laura in recruiting
 members).
* Action item (EP and
 MB): Create Outreach
 Working Group (consisting
 initially of EP and MB) to
 coordinate outreach
 efforts.
* LM suggests that any
 member should be able to
 submit news on blog.
* Discussion of mechanism
 for community news
 submissions.
* Form on tei\-c.org?
* Apricot facilities?





 Appointment of Officers for
 2013
 
 * Laura M. selected to serve as
 Membership Secretary
* John W. selected to continue
 as Secretary
* John U. selected to continue
 as Treasurer




 TAPAS
 
 * Brown has notified TEI that
 Brown is probably not an option
 for long\-term
 hosting/sustainability of
 TAPAS.
* Issues for
 consideration:
* Can/should TEI “own”
 TAPAS?
* Can/should TEI be a partner on
 TAPAS with another group such as
 the HathiTrust?
* Can/should a TEI member sit on
 TAPAS board?
* JU suggests that TEI host
 TAPAS, but not guarantee
 preservation. For preservation
 of content, TAPAS/TEI should
 partner with library
 repository.
* JC suggests that TEI be
 involved but not take ownership
 yet.
* LB also cautious: analogous
 systems being developed in
 Europe, and TEI should not
 endorse one particular
 solution.
* Many note that an easy way to
 publish TEI documents is
 something that has been
 requested by TEI members and the
 larger community.
* JW (following suggestions from
 the rest of the group) moves to
 respond positively, e.g., Yes,
 TEI wants a strong relationship
 with TAPAS and would welcome the
 opportunity to have a member on
 the advisory board. Details
 about ownership, exclusivity,
 etc. may be worked out later.
 General agreement on this
 proposal.




 Action items related to previously
 discussed issues of governance and
 membership
 
 * Action item (MM):
 Produce a summary of by\-laws
 changes and a detailed document
 with old language stricken and
 new language highlighted.
* Action item (JU \&
 MM): Revise membership
 levels/prices/names.
* Action item (DS):
 Set up joint Board\-Council email
 list to facilitate Board\-Council
 communication. As an extension
 of the regular Board list, this
 list will also be
 private.
* Action item (EP with
 help as requested):
 Contact partner institution
 representatives to alert them of
 proposed elimination of TEI
 "Partner" status.




 Revisiting of Partner issue
 
 * Further discussion of Partner
 role. Discussed possibility of
 Oxford and TGE Adonis
 withdrawing financial and other
 support after elimination of
 partner role.



Meeting adjourned approximately 3:30pm
 local time.



