---
layout: page.njk
title: "TEI-C Board Meeting 2018-02-08"
---
# TEI-C Board Meeting 2018-02-08




Agenda
------


* Meeting Procedures and Other Announcements
	+ Approve minutes of January meeting
	+ Welcome new Treasurer
	+ Minutes from October, November, December await approval
* Old Business
	+ TEI\-c Code of Conduct to be approved [\[1]](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1dVRdO0xXfxorLNAhy9rw8-qA93sjKhNw0JNFLSJ0iuU/edit#heading=h.6mt6yycisdk "[1]")
* Tasks for the next three months\-\-Kathryn
	+ Rahtz Prize [\[2]](https://www.tei-c.org/Activities/rahtz.xml "[2]")
	+ Elections [\[3]](https://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/TEI-C_and_TAPAS_Election_Process "[3]")
		- September meeting date means we need to begin process in March
* New Business
* TEI sponsorship for members to attend DHSI and its members' courses taught at the
 DHSI (Proposal Elisa Beshero\-Bondar Dec. 13th, 2017\)
* Request for funding for linguistics expert to attend Council F2F meeting in Cologne\-\-Martina
* Reports
	+ Conference\-\-Kiyonori
		- Date of Members Meeting (for election timeline)
	+ DARIAH\-DE event\-\-Laurent
	+ Membership\-\-Laurent




Attendees
---------


present:
* Kathryn Tomasek (KT)
* Michelle Dalmau (MD)
* Hugh Cayless (HC)
* Martina Scholger (MS)
* Laurent Romary (LR)
* Kyonori Nagasaki (KN)
* Luis Meneses (LM)
* Georg Vogeler (GV)




Action Items
------------


* **LR** to take up MD comments in the google\-doc and prepare revision of Code of Conduct
* **MD, HC** to suggest revision of procedures for Rahtz Prize, to be approved by Board at March
 meeting
* **MD** to transfer conference portion of Code of Conduct document to documentation for conference
 organization
* **KT** to contact Julia Flanders for TAPAS participant on nominations committee
* **KT**to contact Gaby Bodard re: participation on Rahtz Prize committee
* **KT** to notify Elisa Besharo\-Bondar that request for funding DHSI courses cannot be approved
 this year




Decisions
---------


* Table request for funding DHSI as a Supporting Partner
* Approve funding for f2f\-Council meeting




Minutes
-------



### Meeting Procedures and Other Announcements


* Approve minutes of January meeting


Approved
* Welcome new Treasurer


Hi Hugh!
* Minutes from October, November, December await approval
	+ MD is cleaning up the minutes from October, November, December along with Business
	 Meeting minutes; Plan to approve all minutes over email




### TEI\-C Code of Conduct to be approved [\[1]](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1dVRdO0xXfxorLNAhy9rw8-qA93sjKhNw0JNFLSJ0iuU/edit#heading=h.6mt6yycisdk "[1]")


Raised as a need by Board in 2013\-2014
Current version initially drafted as guidelines for social media communications
MD suggests to transfer [conference part](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1dVRdO0xXfxorLNAhy9rw8-qA93sjKhNw0JNFLSJ0iuU/edit#heading=h.xfzuip7c04b2 "conference part")(at the end) to the documentation for conference organisation
Ask Kevin who all has access to the @TEIC handle \=\> brought forward to next meeting
LR: Add an explicit reference to linguistic issue in cultural diversity:
“**Language**: we celebrate our multilingual community and welcome people using social media in
 languages other than English (which remains the primary language of the TEI Guidelines).
 Multilingualism enables authorized users of social media to engage in non\-English
 conversations and reach a broader audience. While every exchange will not be translated
 into English, it would be courteous as well as inclusive to write a summary post describing
 the conversation, e.g. “We’re discussing whether the TEI Guidelines are useful for
 encoding texts in Pāli. Please jump in and I’ll join up the conversation.”
**Humour**: humour varies widely across cultures. What is clearly light\-hearted in one culture
 can be seen as (passive) aggressive, dismissive, or confrontational in another. As
 part of being considerate and respectful, it is best to avoid humour in social media
 posts on behalf of the TEI, particularly irony and sarcasm.”
MD: add to **3\. Be considerate**
\=\> brought forward : LR to take up MD comments in the google\-doc and prepare revision


### Tasks for the next three months


* Rahtz Prize[\[2]](https://www.tei-c.org/Activities/rahtz.xml "[2]")
	+ 2017 was the first year: Raff Vigilanti \+ EVT (honorable mention)
	+ Last term: received 6 nominations
	+ We need an awards committee: Chairs of Council and Board \+ extra person, KT, MS, carry
	 through MD
	+ plan to revise guidelines
		- experience: nominations with not enough information accessible for evaluation \=\> encourage
		 open\-source/open access activities
		- **MD, HC** to suggest revision, to be approved by Board
		- MD and HC to expand the revision to people outside official functions, e.g. invite
		 Gaby Bodard
	+ timeline:
		- revision by next week
		- publish call (CfN) by End of February
		- 1 April: Nominations Due
		- 1 June: Submissions Due
		- 15 September: Recipient Selected \=\> August 15th latest, try be earlier (August 1st);
		 not be mentioned on the public page ([http://www.tei\-c.org/Activities/rahtz.xml\#body.1\_div.3](https://www.tei-c.org/Activities/rahtz.xml#body.1_div.3 "http://www.tei-c.org/Activities/rahtz.xml#body.1_div.3")) \=\> **LM** to modify page accordingly
		- Annual Business Meeting: Recipient Announced \=\> September 1\#th
* Elections\[3]
	+ nomination committee: KT, GV, \+?
		- suggestions by LM, MS, Tapas person?
		- **KT** to contact Julia Flanders for TAPAS participant on committee
	+ nomination via google forms
		- to be adapted
	+ documentation available at [https://wiki.tei\-c.org/index.php/TEI\-C\_and\_TAPAS\_Election\_Process\#Nominating\_Committee](https://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/TEI-C_and_TAPAS_Election_Process#Nominating_Committee "https://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/TEI-C_and_TAPAS_Election_Process#Nominating_Committee")
	+ wild apricot to identify membership but not for voting roles
		- LR can help with this
	+ September meeting date means we need to begin process in March:
		- Conference and Members’ Meeting 10\-14 September
			* Members’ Meeting 1\# September
		- Voting closes 10 September (end of the day of the conference)
		- Voting opens 1 June
		- Slate published 30 May
		- Statements \& biographies 28 May
		- Invitation to respond 14 May
		- Deadline for nominations 1 May
		- Reminders: as many as possible (like LM last term: every week), engage personally
		- Call for nominations 1 April




### Continuous revision of documentation:


LR proposes to set up a regular revision meeting before/at business meetings? \=\> brought
 forward


### Rough financial report


informal report by HC, who is still in process of looking into the status together
 with Virtual.
We have roughly 200\.000 USD, but we still have to see.
Funding requests to be expected: Journal, Conference


### TEI sponsorship for members to attend DHSI and its members' courses taught at the
 DHSI (Proposal Elisa Beshero\-Bondar Dec. 13th, 2017\)


Discussion:
HC: If we support, we need a general solution (set up process)
MD: registration waiver is helpful , but the travel costs can be significant; the
 TEI community is supporting DHSI curriculum
LR: preferring local/regional TEI events with no support? Suggests to encourage young
 researcher in attending the conference
KT: TEI is in new situation (Virtual, new treasurer). We are in the process of budget
 forecasting.
Decision:
unanimous vote to **reject**current request at this time, KT to draft response


### Request for funding for linguistics expert to attend Council F2F meeting in Cologne
 before DHd2018


Linguistics SIG is very active, amongst them Susanne Haaf (BBAW): cover her extra
 night in Cologne: **approved**


### Reports


* Conference\-\-Kiyonori
	+ Date of Members Meeting (for election timeline):10th plenary lecture, every time afterwards
	 \=\> traditionally at the final day: preferable prefinal day (13th)
	+ Working on CFP with Susan
	+ Challenges of tools when working with Chinese colleagues
	+ website will be launched soon: https://tei2018\.dhii.asia
* DARIAH\-DE event\-\-Laurent \=\> off\-line
* Membership\-\-Laurent \=\> off\-line





