---
layout: page.njk
title: "TEI Board Conference Call: 09 July 2008"
---
# TEI Board Conference Call: 09 July 2008







TEI Board Conference Call: 9 July 2008

Chris Ruotolo


Certification of the meeting* The meeting was certified at \~14:00 GMT, with the following members present:
 John Lavagnino (JL), Daniel O'Donnell (DO), Sebastian Rahtz (SR), Laurent Romary (LR),
 Chris Ruotolo (CR), Susan Schreibman (SS), and Ray Siemens (RS).
Approval of Agenda* Approved. An update from RS on the viral marketing study was provisionally added
 to the agenda.
Approval of Minutes* Approved with minor correction.
Chair's Report* DO has been working on a way to recognize the service of the early TEI founders on
 the website. He proposed 
 adding to the [Organization page](/About/organization.xml), listing the 
 original steering committee members and editors beneath the current officers. Before
 it goes live on the website, DO will double check
 the list for accuracy, and will run it past Julia, Lou, John before circulating it
 once more for comment.
 He is also looking through the website for a place to possibly list all
 previous Board and Council members. DO plans to write letters to Board and Council
 members annually to add to their dossiers.
Proposal for Printing P5* DO circulated a copy of the P5 printing proposal from Tom Wagner at OmniPress, who
 seems very eager for our business. 
 With P4, we printed 505 copies, gave away 143, and sold 242, for a remainder of 120
 copies (which are still at the U.Va. Press; we need
 to decide what to do with them). Unlike P4, P5 is
 freely available in PDF format, so we may sell even fewer copies as a result. At
 minimum, we will need enough copies to send to current members, and
 a way of providing copies as needed throughout the life of P5 (4\-5 years), either
 from inventory or via print on demand. 


OmniPress provided several possible printing scenarios. Printing a smaller number
 of volumes initially, and going to POD 
 when those are exhausted, would result in a relatively high per\-unit cost, so subsequent
 purchasers of P5 would pay more. Alternately, printing a 
 larger initial run would involve a higher upfront cost but a lower per\-unit cost.
 OmniPress would keep a microinventory, and books would be
 cheaper for subsequent purchasers. It costs $400/yr to maintain an online store,
 and an extra $200/yr if we keep inventory. OmniPress would provide
 quarterly updates, along with any profits. There's no minimum contract length. 


After a lengthy discussion, the Board decided to print the minimum number of copies
 needed initially, and rely on POD after that. 
 This approach will reduce the TEI's upfront costs, and the increased cost per unit
 
 seems reasonable. A small initial print run will also allow for the possibility of
 a reprint with corrections down the road, since 
 OmniPress can handle updated PDFs for an additional cost.


We need enough initial copies to cover current members, plus gift volumes to the editors
 and a few others, but we don't want to have an inventory
 that carries over until the next year. DO will get a precice count of current members,
 and will talk to Tom about printing that amount plus a small
 overage, which will be shipped to DO and Veronika Lux to avoid the warehousing fee.
 All subsequent sales will be POD, with the option of
 sending corrected PDFs in the future. Membership copies will cost the TEI about $110
 after the first year.
Approval of TEI Elections Ballot* SS circulated the candidate slates for the 2008 election. One candidate has declared
 himself a candidate for 
 both Council and Board, and the Nominating Committee expressed concerned that allowing
 this would work against
 the goal of encouraging wide participation, given that every year there are good candidates
 who don't get positions. 
 The Board discussed whether it should move to prevent this practice. LR felt we
 should discourage candidates from serving on Board and Council simultaneously, 
 since it's hard to give full attention to both, and we need to leave room for new
 people to get involved. SR argued that the issue should be left
 up to the voters; he noted that it has been permitted in the past, and that barring
 it would lead to questions
 about what happens when an appointed member (such as a host representative) wants
 to run for an elected position. 
 DO noted that cliquishness is a problem for the TEI, and having the same people in
 multiple posts could exacerbate that.


The Board agreed in principle that it's a bad idea to have candidates running for
 multiple posts, but was split on the question 
 of whether or not to do anything about it in the case of this year's ballot. A committee
 was formed to come up with a proposal
 to address this problem in the future; DO, SS, JL, and RS volunteered, and SS will
 ask Katherine Walter to participate. This 
 group should also revisit the role of the Nominating Committee.
Council (LR)* The Council will hold a conference call to discuss the possibility of another face\-to\-face
 meeting before the MM.
Tite Update (DO)* There have been 45 responses to the survey so far, and the answers have been mixed.
 We may be missing
 a number of potential respondents. DO will try to post the survey to the ACH list.
Other Reports* The other outstanding reports (Budget, Web Status \& Priorities, MM2009, Viral Marketing)
 will be emailed to the Board list.




