---
layout: page.njk
title: "TEI Board Conference Call: 13-14 November 2010"
---
# TEI Board Conference Call: 13-14 November 2010







TEI Board Meeting: 13\-14 November 2010

Sarah Wells


Certification of the meeting* The meeting was certified with the following members present: Syd Bauman
 (SB), Lou Burnard (LB), Veronika Lux (VL), Daniel O'Donnell (DO), Sebastian
 Rahtz (SR), Laurent Romary (LR), Susan Schreibman (SS), Sarah Wells (SW),
 and Christian Wittern (CW).
Approval of agenda* The agenda was approved.
Approval of minutes* The minutes of the last meeting were approved.
Bylaws* As noted in the business meeting minutes, the vote on the proposed changes
 to the bylaws were within four votes of a quorum, all in favor of the
 changes. The vote therefore was tipped over to the Board, which can vote to
 accept it. However, the bylaws require a Board membership of seven to ten
 members, and the changes would reduce the Board membership to six. The
 bylaws don’t allow the Board to vote on this. 


Instead, the Board can have special elections for two new Board members for
 two\-year terms, raising the total number of voting members to six, and give
 the Treasurer and Council Chair voting rights for one year. That gives the
 Board a total of eight voting members, but only for one year. In 2011, the
 membership can elect two more voting members for two\-year memberships to the
 Board. The Treasurer and Council Chair will then lose their voting rights
 (unless they run for and win Board membership). 


The proposed bylaw changes also include changes to the TEI hosts, including
 the removal of the minimum of four hosts. DO suggested rethinking the
 terminology of description of “host,” perhaps substituting the term
 "partner," to forestall concerns about the demands of requirements of
 hosting (specifically the in\-kind requirements). This would be a
 nomenclature change only. In principle, the Board approvals this change, but
 will investigate the repercussions of the new wording (particularly what
 level of funding new hosts need to provide). 


Motions that the Board hold special elections by the end of January 2011 to
 bring in two new elected Board members by the beginning of February 2011,
 that the unelected Treasurer and Council Chair will hold voting privileges
 for the transition year (2011\), and that the bylaws be approved as proposed
 w/minor modification to change “hosts” to “partners” were accepted.
 Conference and Members’ Meeting debriefing* SS reported on a SIG luncheon meeting held earlier in the day. The SIG
 Coordinators complained that the SIGs were not mentioned at the business
 meeting during the conference and asked for time at the poster slam to
 introduce themselves and groups. They also asked if a SIG Coordinator could
 be included in the program committee for future conferences. The arrangement
 of holding SIG groups to a half\-day in the mornings during the conference
 and mixing the groups in with paper presentations was positively viewed. The
 Coordinators do not wish to be part of pre\-conference workshops, which have
 extra costs for participants, but they do like having blocks of time in
 which to meet. 


The SIG linguistics lunch was very successful this year, and the Coorindators felt
 that it
 would be helpful to have a SIG reception on first day. Other ideas were to
 have a SIG program and/or an initial reception that features SIGS and leads in
 to SIG groups and workshops. This puts extra work on SIG chairs, but they were interested.
 


The Board was happy with the overall paper quality. The conference experience was
 good, but there
 were several local issues that arose in both the planning and actual execution
 of the conference. These caused stress and extra work for the program
 committee and required outside help. Some problems were unique to this location and
 some could not have been foreseen, but there should be protocols for
 Members’ Meetings that are provided to local organizers. Kevin Hawkins wrote up
 protocols after the Ann Arbor meeting that could be updated to reflect
 lessons learned and given to future local organizers. This could be assigned
 to the 2011 local organizing committee. 


The workshops were problematic: there were many submissions, some with high
 budgets, but some organizers were not happy with plans for half\-day
 workshops with flat fees. Perhaps it would be helpful to differentiate
 between workshops that teach new technology, exhibitions of tools and
 applications, and working meetings. It would be helpful to study standard
 terminology and organizational models: the Board should look at how other
 conferences handle workshops. The program committee also needs to set
 policies of fees and cost\-recovery. 


Could we set up feedback forums for 2011? Perhaps someone can do paper survey
 and survey monkey for next year. It would also be nice to have abstracts
 available in advance. This may have been a local issue, since preparing
 printed hand\-outs was problematic. 


For future planning bids, Board should be careful to look for experienced
 organizers and local involvement with the TEI community.
Planning for 2011/2012 meetings* We want to be out of sync with DH, which will next be held in July in
 California. It would also be wise to solicit calls for hosts well in
 advance, so that local organizers have time to investigate possible funding
 options. Therefore the Board decided to issue two calls for the next two
 years, requesting bids from outside North America for 2011 and outside
 Europe for 2012\. 


The meeting adjourned for the night.
Continuation of the meeting* The meeting reconvened on Sunday, 14 November, with the following members
 present: Syd Bauman (SB), Lou Burnard (LB), Veronika Lux (VL), Daniel
 O'Donnell (DO), Laurent Romary (LR), Susan Schreibman (SS), Sarah Wells
 (SW), and Christian Wittern (CW).
Planning Special Elections* The Board agreed that the nomination committee for the regular 2010 Board
 and Council elections should be asked to hold the special elections that
 will be complete by the end of January, 2011\.
 Election/Confirmation of Officer* We are facing major changes this year. We can either fill some or all of
 these positions now, or decide to defer or delegate some of these decisions.
 The current incumbents are: 


	+ Chair: DO
	+ Vice Chair: SS
	+ Secretary: SW
	+ Treasurer: SW
	+ Council Chair: LR
	+ Executive Director: VLThe Council chair appointment was for a renewable two year term (2010\-2011\)
 subject to continuing Board approval. It was approved last year. 


DO recommends that we not continue annual terms but have two\-year terms and
 stagger them so that there isn’t too much turnover at one time. The Board
 approved this. CW asked if the bylaws allow for removing an officer before
 the end of a term if there are problems. If not, the Board should add a
 clause. The Board agreed. 


There was discussion of the function of the Executive Director, Secretary,
 and Treasurer positions. The split between issuing membership invoices and
 receiving payments is awkward, and it might make sense to move the
 membership invoicing tasks to the Treasurer and combine the Secretary and
 Executive Director to handle membership relations and recruiting and other
 duties. 


SS suggests investing some duties related to planning and coordinating
 Members’ Meetings could devolve onto the Secretary, so that his/her responsiblities
 go beyond taking
 minutes at meetings. Or, give the seal responsibilities to the Chair and let
 minute\-taking responsibilities be passed around. LB pointed out that
 maintaining institutional memory is important and should be considered a
 dedicated task. 


There was also discussion about creating a Board\-level SIG Coordinator position
 or adding that to the Vice Chair‘s responsibilities, and of combining the
 Vice Chair and Secretary duties. A possible realignment could be: 


	+ Chair
	+ Executive Director/Membership development
	+ Vice Chair/Secretary (maintenance of non\-financial records,
	 operation of Board and Council, administrative)
	+ Treasurer (add in membership invoicing and receivables)
	+ Council Chair
	+ SIG CoordinatorSS pointed out that a permanent SIG Coordinator position raises it to a more
 important role and acknowledges that it is vital task, rather than relying
 on volunteers. Similarly, DO felt that membership development has been
 spread out or delegated too much and that it is key source of income which
 has not been effectively developed. 


LR moved for four positions and to leave membership to Board appointments: 


	+ Chair
	+ Vice Chair and Secretary (maintenance of non\-financial records,
	 operation of Board and Council, administrative)
	+ Treasurer (add in membership invoicing and receivables)
	+ Council Chair \- programThe motion failed.


There was further discussion of a SIG Coordinator position: should it be a
 Board officer position? Could the SIG coordinating responsibilities be
 delegated? SS feels that she was a more effective SIG Coordinator as a
 Board member, and that these duties should be handled by a Board member and not lumped
 in
 with the Membership Secretary's duties. LB sees it as not an officer position, but
 as either appointed to a Board member or taken on by an officer. 


DO moved for five positions: 


	+ Chair
	+ Secretary (maintenance of non\-financial records, focus on
	 operation of Board and Council, administrative, taking over the Vice
	 Chair duties)
	+ Treasurer (add in membership invoicing and receivables)
	+ Council Chair
	+ Membership Secretary (recruitment and maintenance of
	 membership)The motion passed.
Staffing and terms* The Treasurer and Council Chair are staffed and mid\-term, but the Chair,
 Secretary, and Membership Secretary need to be appointed. There was
 discussion as to whether these positions should be drawn from outside the
 Board or volunteered from within. A nominating committee, composed of people
 who are not in the running, could approach people and solicit suggestions.
 Should the committee only focus on the Chair? Should the Board set criteria for
 the positions? What should the timeline be? 


DO moved for a nominating committee to handle all officer elections. This was
 accepted. It will be staffed by CW, LR, VL, and SW as disinterested parties.
 The committee will develop criteria and nominate members, and return with a
 list of candidates for the Board to review.
Selection of Standing Committees and Representatives* Nominating Committee: 


	+ Chair
	+ 1 Board Member and 0 or more additional members: LB and Arianna
	 CiulaWeb: the Board will ask David Sewell


2011 Conference and Members' Meeting Program Committee: 


	+ Program Organizer/Committee Chair: LR
	+ External Member(s) \-\- LR will draw up a list, including a SIG
	 Chair2012 Conference and Members' Meeting Program Committee: deferred to after the
 January elections 


Board Representative to Council (Board or External): LR 


SIG Coordinator: add this to the Membership Secretary's tasks and ask the SIG Chairs
 to nominate
 someone to be their representative on
 the Board and Council teleconferences. The motion passed, SB voting against, all else
 in favor.
SIG reports from SIG Conveners luncheon Nov. 13 meeting (SS)* The attendants at the luncheon discussed the SIG grant program. The SIG
 Conveners (Chairs) like offering grants twice a year. the SIG Conveners want
 to discuss with the Council the idea of meta\-SIG groups that discuss TEI
 development, rather than working in isolation. They felt that the liaison's
 (appointed by Council to work with individual SIGs on technical development
 and coordination) activity not helpful and want to improve the mechanism for
 interacting w/Council. They want better communication with the Board and
 Council. They would like to reinstate annual reports from the SIGs to the
 Board and Council that are published for the public. They would like to give
 a report at the annual Members’ Meeting Business meeting, or perhaps during
 the Welcome session. The program committee needs to add this in
 somewhere.
Budget Process* Given the changes, what budget process would we like to follow this
 November, keeping in mind that we are already committed to offering the SIG
 program on a regular basis with timely announcements? 


The Board has started new mechanism for budgeting in last few years. There
 are some basic costs that must be covered (auditors, Board meeting, etc.),
 but the rest of it is negotiable. Each activity has submitted request for
 funding and then Board discusses. 


The Board can ask the Treasurer to submit list of required costs and then
 everyone else submits requests. This needs to be done early on in calendar
 year. 


We are committed to offering SIG grants twice a year, and the first call will
 go up during budget negotiations. 


The Treasurer will prepare an analysis of income over the past few years. 


DO proposes that everyone submit budget requests by December 15,
 w/justification. This year, we won’t have requests from hosts, but
 institutions will need to justify and detail all activities, not enough to
 just be a host. In\-kind contributions should be included in budget requests.
 The requests will be two parts: a spreadsheet listing costs and a budget
 narrative explaining costs. 


Known costs that the budget should cover are:


	+ Council (chair): travel, editorial support
	+ Board (chair): travel, Members’ Meeting costs ($5,200 has been set
	 aside to subsidize costs in the past), other activities
	+ SIG grants (SS)
	+ Individual partner proposals for specific tasks (web support,
	 etc.)The Treasurer will consolidate and summarize budget requests by January 1\.
Recruitment* SIG Grant CFP announcements+ Grants will be given twice a year and need to be announced
	 regularly. The announcements should give a rough scope of grant
	 amounts and focus, and include information about previous grant
	 recipients. 
	
	
	SS will need to issue first call before 2011 budget is set, so she
	 will assume that there will be roughly same amount available as
	 before ($4,000, half of $8,000\).
	Conference hosting bid announcements+ We want potential hosts to take on some risk, but not all. And
	 proposed budgets should be low but not ridiculous. Individual
	 countries have specific limits (on alcohol, food, etc.) that will
	 affect what costs the organizers can cover. The call for bids will
	 indicate that the Board will subsidize up to $5,200 in costs. This
	 money is also contingency against disaster: if the conference has to
	 be cancelled because of natural causes, political upheaval, etc.,
	 the Board will provide up to $5,200 to cover host costs. 
	
	
	The call for bids should also say that fund\-raising is expected and
	 that TEI will take back earnings from registration and workshop
	 fees.
	Partners (a.k.a., Hosts)+ As of right now, partners need to be div 0 members. There are
	 several member institutions that are interested in becoming
	 partners. We can have standing call for bids, since we don’t have
	 host terms anymore. 
	
	
	The new model will encourage different thinking about new financial
	 arrangements, but we will need to see how the new system works out.
	 In the future there may be a need to allow customization of
	 requirements for partner application.
Other Business* SS reported on the status of the TEI Journal. The are preparing the first issue. SS
 and CW
 encouraged submissions from papers given at this Members' Meeting. The first
 issue should be out around March/April. Conference proceedings out in
 autumn. The linguistics SIG will produce a special issue in the spring.
 There will be two issues per year. 


SB brought up concern about the Secretary not being based in Virginia, for
 legal issues. 


SB also asked about SIGs seeking funding: SIGs are supposed to go through the
 Board to get permission before seeking outside funding? Answer is no, but it
 should be checked.
Adjournment at 14:25




