---
layout: page.njk
title: "TEI-C Board Meeting 2020-10-15"
---
# TEI-C Board Meeting 2020-10-15
via zoom


Attending
=========


* Kathryn Tomasek (KT)
* Gimena del Rio Riande (GRR)
* Christiane Fritze (CF)
* Hugh Cayless (HC)
* James Cummings (JC \-late as coming from another meeting)
* Martina Scholger (MS)
* Pip Willcox (PW)
* Luis Meneses (LM)


Action items from last meetings
===============================


* see Asana


Agenda
======


* Meeting Procedures and Other Announcements
* TEI\-C Election
* Preparations for next month's 2020 virtual MM
* Proposals for how to undertake planning for a virtual conference and members' meeting for 2021
* Any Other Business


Minutes
=======


* Meeting Procedures and Other Announcements
	+ Approval of [last meeting minutes](https://tei-c.org/board/tei-c-board-meeting-2020-09-17/): approved by PW, JC, GDRR, KT
* TEI\-C Elections
	+ Elections are underway
* Preparations for next month's 2020 virtual MM
	+ date 19 November 2020
	+ we are asked to give the financial report ahead of the meeting
	+ HG has contacted our Virtual Contact
	+ virtual meeting via Zoom
		- can we post the zoom link via the TEI\-C Mailing list?
		- password protected zoom link
			* we can send out to the Members, but the MMS meeting is open, so this is not an option
		- set it up rather as a kind of webinar
		- HC to host the meeting via Duke’s Zoom account
		- send out the link 1 week before the meeting \= 12 November 2020 to the TEI\-C list
		- KT start sending her annual meeting mail around
		- KT to send quarterly update to the list
		- KT to send date of Business Meeting to TEI\-L now
		- MS looks for the [Google slides from last year](https://zenodo.org/communities/tei2019?page=1&size=20)
	+ duration: one hour
* TEI2021 \- Proposals for how to undertake planning for a virtual conference and members' meeting for 2021
	+ JC reports that Kay is passing on the decision of Nebraska’s involvement to others who will remain there (she is retiring). She says she is “referring your message to the people who would be most likely to replace me and will also discuss with the Dean of Libraries”. They have not got back to us yet, but if they do not wish to host TEI2021 then we should find a method to do so.
	+ JC would still like to host TEI 2022\-\-we hope\-\-in person, but if hosting TEI2021 would not want to organise it twice.
	+ As we consider future conferences, F2F and virtual, consider metrics to be considered regarding what would be required to hold an equitable in\-person meeting. Consider if this is the time to go entirely virtual, as a way of increasing global participation.
	+ Hybrid events do not (currently) work well.
	+ GRR notes here experiences with organizing Force11 Summer Institute 2020
		- Board worked with UCLA committee to design combined platform
			* Zoom, Slack, Sched?
		- To hold a successful online event, it takes many people to organise and run. There is evidence that it increases participation.
	+ KT on Scholarly Editing conference: diverse activities, not just online versions of the usual. Over the same focused period, with other related events scattered over the two weeks around it.
* Review revised call for Communications Officer
	+ HC to ask Virtual for advice on paying the Communications Officer
	+ We will not send out the announcement without a note on payment
	+ KT to contact Luis with the information about the intent to pay the Communications Officer\-\-done
* Any Other Business
	+ none


Date of next Meetings
=====================


Every month on the Third Thursday
* Nov 19, 2020 11:00 AM Eastern Time (US and Canada) ← Member’s Meeting
* Dec 17, 2020 11:00 AM Eastern Time (US and Canada)


\-\-\-\-\-
* Jan 21, 2021 11:00 AM Eastern Time (US and Canada)
