---
layout: page.njk
title: "TEI-C Board Meeting 2018-03-08"
---
# TEI-C Board Meeting 2018-03-08




Agenda
------


* Meeting Procedures and Other Announcements
	+ Approve minutes of February meeting
* Susan Schreibman, Program Committee Chair
* Old Business
	+ TEI\-c Code of Conduct to be approved [\[1]](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1dVRdO0xXfxorLNAhy9rw8-qA93sjKhNw0JNFLSJ0iuU/edit#heading=h.6mt6yycisdk "[1]")
* New Business
* Reports
	+ Conference\-\-Kiyonori
	+ Rahtz Prize\-\-Kathryn
	+ Elections\-\-Kathryn




Attending:
----------


* Kathryn Tomasek (KT)
* Martina Scholger (MS)
* Hugh Cayless (HC)
* Susan Schreibman (SS)
* Laurent Romary (LR)
* Luis Meneses (LM)
* Michelle Dalmau (MD)




Excused:
--------


* Georg Vogeler (GV)
* Kiyonori Nagasaki (KN)




Action Items:
-------------


* **ALL**: Work on circulating CFP on social media
* **KT**: Ask Chinese colleague about using Chinese social media
* **MD**: Send SS host proposal
* **LR**: Draft message re: membership drive for TEI\-L; **MD** to review
* Circulate February minutes for approval over email
* Circulate Code of Conduct for approval over email




Minutes:
--------


* Susan Schreibman, Program Committee Chair
	+ Points to website, CFP
	+ CFP posted to Humanist, DARIAH\-L, Twitter, TEI\-C website
	+ Emphasizes need to circulate CFP widely
	+ Discussion of ways to extend reach in Pacific Rim
	+ Calendar
		- JADH on the Sunday, Monday, and Tuesday
		- Preconference workshops on Monday during the day with big shared keynote in the afternoon
		- Board Meeting to be scheduled tentatively for Monday morning
			* Only need a half day
			* Plan to hold \~10 for Board meeting
		- Council meeting days will be finalized once workshops have been submitted and accepted
		 as some Council members usually lead those
			* Council will like to have an open session opposite a workshop slot as a way to invite
			 the community to see their work up close
			* Plan to hold \~12 for Council meeting except on Open Session which needs to hold 12\+
		- Members meeting to be scheduled as part of the main program
	+ SS would like to see the host proposal; MD will send that along


* Meeting Procedures and Other Announcements
	+ Approve minutes of February meeting\-\-tabled to email
* Old Business
	+ TEI\-C Code of Conduct to be approved [\[1]](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1dVRdO0xXfxorLNAhy9rw8-qA93sjKhNw0JNFLSJ0iuU/edit#heading=h.6mt6yycisdk "[1]")
* New Business
* Reports
	+ Conference\-\-Kiyonori
		- Did not discuss
	+ Rahtz Prize\-\-Kathryn
		- MD updated the language to emphasize open\-access / open\-source nature of the project;
		 nomination and application forms updated to reflect the same
		- HC reviewed suggested changes and approved them
		- LM will post updated version of Call on TEI web site: http://www.tei\-c.org/Activities/rahtz.xml
	+ Elections\-\-Kathryn
		- Did not discuss
	+ Code of Conduct
		- Quickly reviewed and decided we should approve over email.
	+ Membership Drive
		- [https://wiki.tei\-c.org/index.php/TEI\-C\_Free\_One\_Year\_Workshop\_Memberships](https://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/TEI-C_Free_One_Year_Workshop_Memberships "https://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/TEI-C_Free_One_Year_Workshop_Memberships")
		- Laurent will draft announcement for the List; Michelle will review announcement
		- Hugh needs to reset the time period for closing message on banner
		- Hugh will need to update the HTML to post to the guidelines
		- Kevin and Luis will deal with the static web page web site updates
		- Inquiry to Virtual re: Payment by PayPal (not received response from Virtual, Inc.)
		- Open up the transactions to support credit cards, not just PayPal (if not cost\-prohibitive)




