---
layout: page.njk
title: "TEI Consortium Board Meeting, November 9th, 2003: Minutes"
creator: Geoffrey Rockwell, grockwel@mcmaster.ca
---
# TEI Consortium Board Meeting, November 9th, 2003: Minutes







TEI\-C Board of Directors meeting, November 9th 2003

Minutes taken by Geoffrey Rockwell, TEI Board Secretary




Certification of meeting
 
 
 
 The meeting was certified.




 Approval of the agenda
 
 
 
 The agenda was approved.




 Matters arising from October 2002 meeting in Chicago
 
 
 
 
 Tone Merete will update the Board TEI Procedures document with an item on elections
 and will circulate to the Board. 
 
 TM and All Board Members
 Update Board TEI Procedures. All Board Members should review carefully.
 
 Board members should check it. Once the Board Procedures document is sorted out then
 we can move on to changes to the public document(s). 
 
 All Board Members
 The Board should discuss how public documents should be changed to reflect changes
 to our procedures.
 




 There was an action item to create recruiting literature, funds permitting. We decided
 this was not worth doing.
 




 Matters arising from the conference call in June 2003
 
 
 
 
 Tone Merete will put up funding deadline document.
 
 TMB
 Put up funding deadline document.
 




 We discussed approaching Japanese funding sources about language encouraging TEI membership
 in grants. Claus approached Christian Wittern to see about this. Approaching Japanese
 funding sources about this would be premature, according to Christian. Instead we
 should stay in touch with Japanese contacts to include TEI membership in their grant
 proposals, and to encourage TEI\-related funding applications. 
 
 CH
 Stay in touch with Japanese contacts about encouraging TEI\-related funding applications.
 




 We discussed whether we can get DFG (German funding agency) to include similar language.
 Peter Robinson volunteered to pursue this. 
 
 PR
 Peter Robinson will pursue the question of getting DFG to encourage membership in
 grants.
 




 Lou talked to Laurent Romary about Feature Structures and ISO. The Feature Structures
 workgroup has successfully met.
 



 Syd is following up on the GPL copyright license.
 
 SB
 Develop GPL copyright license for TEI.
 




 Julia reported about the Logo group. None of the existing examples are acceptable
 yet. Julia will work with the group to develop a brief and to find a design class
 that might take this on as a project.
 
 JF
 Develop logo for the TEI.
 





 Appointment of Chair of the Council
 
 
 
 Christian Wittern was appointed Chair of the Council. 
 
 HS
 Inform Wittern that he has been appointed Chair of the Council.
 





 Appointment of Officers of the Board
 
 
 
 Julia Flanders was appointed Chair of the Board. Geoffrey Rockwell was appointed Vice\-Chair,
 Patrick Durusau was appointed Secretary and Claus Huitfeldt was reappointed Treasurer.
 




 Members meeting 2003 Feedback
 
 
 
 Peter Robinson reported on the Feedback form filled out by members at the meeting.
 There were 37 forms returned. Some of the issues that came up were:
 


* The length of the meeting.
* SIGs were successful and we need to discuss how they can be managed and supported.
* We need to think about the number of Keynote and Invited speakers.
* Attendees enjoyed the long breaks as opportunities to meet and talk with others.



 Peter will circulate a more detailed report on the feedback for inclusion in the minutes.
 
 PR
 Circulate feedback report for 2003 meeting.
 




 After discussion the following emerged as ideas for the next conference:
 


* We should reduce the number of invited speakers.
* We should have a poster session, possibly coordinated with a long break.
* We should replace the Open Mike session with a session of short papers that are selected
 on the basis of a call for papers.
* We should make more time for SIGs and their reports.
* We might allocate time on the Thursday afternoon for SIG activities that would overlap
 or be coordinated with training.



 We discussed how to organize and support the SIGs. Some of the issues that came up
 are:
 


* Do we want one or more Board members to act as a conduit for SIGs to interact with
 the Consortium?
* What will be the status of SIG documents and how can they make recommendations to
 the Board or Council?
* Should the editors run the web sites for the SIGs or should they run their own?
* Should we recommend that SIGs organize in a particular fashion? For example should
 we ask that they select a convenor?



 Lou Burnard will work with them in the short term should they want a web site or discussion
 list. 
 
 LB
 Contact SIG convenors to provide support.
 
 Peter will review and circulate his original SIG document. 
 
 PR
 Review and circulate SIG document.
 
 Julia will take up the issue and lead future discussion and decision making should
 that be called for. 
 
 JF
 Lead discussion and decisions on SIGs.
 




 The Chair expressed our appreciation to the Organizing Committee for an excellent
 conference and meeting. The Committee included Laurent Romary, Peter Robinson, Lou
 Burnard and Syd Bauman. Tone Merete Bruvik also contributed significantly to the success
 of the meeting.
 




 Members meeting 2004
 
 
 
 
 We discussed possibilities for the next meeting in 2004\. The suggestion that we find
 a local host in the Far East was discussed and it was noted that this would have an
 effect on the budget. We agreed that we needed to form a Organizing Committee to quickly
 identify a date and place for the next meeting.
 



 To that end we selected an Organizing Committee that will include Tone Merete ex\-officio,
 the Editors, and John Unsworth (who has to be contacted about this.) 
 
 HS
 Contact John Unsworth to ask if he will join the Organizing Committee for the 2004
 meeting.
 
 In the event that John is unwilling, Claus said he would do it.
 



 The Organizing Committee is encouraged to report back by the end of January. 
 Organizing Committee
 Report back to Board with the place and date for the 2004 Members Meeting \- Organizing
 Committee by 
 Jan. 2004.
 
 Should it be possible to also identify a place for 2005 that would help with planning
 and securing funds.
 




 Appointment of nominations committee for 2004
 
 
 
 Bill Kretchmar and Edward Vanhoutte were selected for the Nominations Committee. Two
 board members were also, in accordance with the bylaws, appointed. They are Claus
 Huitfeldt and ???. The Chair will contact them to see if they are willing to serve.
 
 
 HS
 Contact Edward Vanhoutte and Bill Kretchmar about the Nominations Committee.
 





 Report on the NEH project
 
 
 
 Tone Merete reported briefly on the NEH project. She mentioned a problem with delayed
 reporting of expenses that makes it hard to complete the budget.
 




 Editors' Report
 
 
 
 The Editors' reports were discussed. The Board will ask the Council and Editors to
 publish a timetable for P5 and a formal statement of what P5 will do. The Board Chair
 will ask the Chair of the Council to facilitate this. 
 
 HS
 Contact Council Chair about a timeline and formal statement about P5\.
 
 There was also a question about when there will be an open process for submissions
 for P5\.
 




 Membership Recruiting
 
 
 
 Tone Merete reported on our current membership and recruiting. We currently have 70
 members of which 12 are new. Most new members are at a lower level. We have a problem
 with members paying late. We need to improve how we invoice members. \[AI.16]
 




 Financial statements
 
 
 
 The projection for 2003 was approved.
 



 The 2004 draft budget was introduced by the Treasurer. Claus mentioned how it is less
 than 2003 because of the absence of the NEH grant. We discussed the effect of the
 annual conference on the budget and the reduction in funds for invited speakers. We
 discussed the need to pursue grant opportunities to fund activities of the TEI. We
 agreed that our next year priority for funding is getting P5 out. New workgroups are
 a lesser priority.
 



 The 2004 budget was approved.
 




 Zampolli Memorials
 
 
 
 We discussed how to recognize the contributions of Antonio Zampolli. It was agreed
 that we should work with other organizations to suitably recognize him. \[AI.17]It
 was also suggested that we could dedicate P5 to him.
 



 At this point the meeting was adjourned.
 






