---
layout: page.njk
title: "TEI-C Board Meeting 2020-03-19"
---
# TEI-C Board Meeting 2020-03-19
via Zoom


Attending
=========


* Kathryn Tomasek (KT)
* Christiane Fritze (CF)
* Hugh Cayless (HC)
* James Cummings (JC)
* Luis Meneses (LM)
* Martina Scholger (MS)
* Gimena del Rio Riande (GRR)
* jTEI editors as guests
	+ Joel Kalvesmaki (JK)


Absent
======


* Pip Willcox (PW)


Action items
============


* HC to discuss procedures for paying copy editors for the jTEI in Europe
* jTEI editors to submit a proposal on the length of terms for the Board to consider/approve
* KT to contact Julia Flanders with regard to TAPAS Support / TEI Repository
* MS to draft the forms for the Ratz price
* MS to update the website with regard to the composition of the Rahtz price committee
* MS to send the announcement to KT and JC
* MS to ask the Infrastructure Group to be involved in the process of finding a new webmaster
* CF and LM to liaise with regard of hosting a ticketing system


Agenda
======


* Meeting Procedures and Other Announcements
* Report of the  JTEI editors
* Migration to Debian 10 Servers via Humanum (LM)
* Updates
	+ Strategic budget allocations (KT)
	+ TAPAS Support / TEI Repository
	+ Announcement of the Rahtz Price
	+ Finding a Webmaster
	+ Conference documentation (nomination PC chair)
	+ Membership Campaign and Institutional Membership (HC)
	+ Ticketing System for Board actions (CF)
	+ TEI\-L Discussion on changing election terms for Board and Council Members (KT)
	+ Website: structure and content (HC)
	+ Internationalization strategy (HC, GRR)
	+ FORCE 11 partnership (GRR)
* Any Other Business


Minutes
=======


* Meeting Procedures and Other Announcements
	+ KT, GRR, JC approve the [minutes of the February meeting](https://tei-c.org/board/tei-c-board-meeting-2020-02-20/)
* Updates
	+ Report of the jTEI editors  (JK)
		- year by year rotating chair of the editors team
			* currently, JK is chairing and editing the volume from the TEI2019 conference
				+ currently 11 submissions handed in
		- Hoping to increase the reach of the journal through the rolling issue, which we hope will increase submissions from scholars outside of conference attendees
		- Practical questions for the Board
			* copy editors
				+ JK has his own network of freelancers, as do European editors
				+ procedure: 
					- copy editor generates an invoice
					- HC sends it then to Virtual
					- getting in contact with Susi Lorand and let her know that the editor has changed into an editor board
					- HC to discuss procedures for paying people in Europe; JK to contact HC when we need to pay Europeans
				+ costs
					- JK to check with editors and consult with HC about projected budget
			* the length of terms
				+ editors to submit a proposal for the Board to consider/approve
	+ Strategic budget allocations (KT)
		- PW and KT worked on a document on bursaries and will circulate it at the Board
	+ TAPAS Support / TEI Repository
		- table to next meeting
		- KT to contact Julia Flanders
	+ Announcement of the competition of the Rahtz Prize
		- prize committee:
			* MS will take care of forms
			* JC volunteers to be on the Rahtz Prize committee
			* Rahtz Prize Committee: MS, JC and KT
			* MS is updating the website
			* MS sends the announcement to KT and JC
	+ Finding a Webmaster
		- LM suggests asking the Infrastructure Group (IG) to be in charge of this task
		- LM has sent the old job proposal document via email to the Board list of 02/29/2020
		- GRR suggests HumaNum community as potential audience for the call
		- MS will bring up with IG at the next IG meeting
	+ Ticketing System for Board actions (CF)
		- JC thinks that a ticketing system is a good idea, but if we have to pay lots, then not to worry about saving/exporting history
		- MS: Wants it embedded into github or similar if possible so council doesn’t have to use another system.
		- LM mentions that it is possible to host ourselves.
	+ TEI\-L Discussion on Changing election terms for Board and Council Members (KT)
		- a) proposal: moving elections to Spring?
			* KT thinks this is a separate issue.
			* It has some merit, and we might take it up at a later time.
		- b) proposal: merge Council and BOD into one body 
			* JC objects strongly to this as an idea. Council is already overworked. KT agrees. (JC: As do most ppl on Council, I think.) MS agreed as well.
	+ Website: structure and content (HC)
		- HC is looking at website internationalizability
	+ Internationalization strategy (HC, GRR)
		- the group has met and is working
		- HC expects to hear back from Mellon within a week or two
		- FORCE 11 partnership (GRR)
			* GRR has successfully proposed a working group within Force 11 about multilingualism and open science
			* DARIAH People are interested in joining
* Any Other Business
	+ none


 