---
layout: page.njk
title: "TEI Board Minutes: Google Hangout 2016-02-09"
---
# TEI Board Minutes: Google Hangout 2016-02-09






 In attendance:
 
 * Marjorie Burghart (MB)
* Hugh Cayless (HC)
* Michelle Dalmau (MD)
* Martin Mueller (MM)
* Kathryn Tomasek (KT)
* John Unsworth (JU)


Apologies: Pip Wilcox (PW)





 Action Items
 
 * MD: Contact the rest of Board by F 2/12 re: approval of January minutes.
* JU: Write up some guidelines about banking and other money matters for the TEI
 MM.
* MD: Contact the local hosts in Vienna to say that they should choose programme chair
 locally.
* MD: Work with JU on licensing conftool for TEI MM 2016\.
* MD: Confer with Paul O’Shea regarding Social Media Coordinator role and documenting
 value of the effort; KT: Help with assembling data if needed.
* KT: Send a message to TEI list after minutes have been approved, summarizing some
 points.




 Decisions
 
 * MM will serve as Conference Correspondent between the Board and the local hosts in
 Vienna.
* We will leave the time set aside for meetings of the Board as is for now; MD will
 consult with JU as needed.




 Agenda
 
 Meeting Procedures and Other Announcements
 
 Volunteer for Minutes Reviewer
 Hugh Cayless, Chair of the TEI Council! Woot!


Approve Board Meeting Minutes: 
 12\-01\-2016
Update 2016 TEI Conference and Members’ hosted by Austrian Centre for Digital
 Humanities (ACDH)
 
 Conference dates: 
 26 \- 30 September
 2016
Web site in the works ...
 Questions about documentation ...
 Programme Chair?




Programme Chair for the 2016 TEI Members' Meeting and Conference (see
 [http://www.tei\-c.org/Board/procedures.xml\#body.1\_div.4](/Board/procedures.xml#body.1_div.4))
 
 Propose a new model, modify existing model or maintain status\-quo?
 Role of Treasurer in the PC
 Role of Membership Secretary in the PC



Select Social Media Coordinator
 
 Update from Paul O'Shea (pending)
 Call for Applicants and Timeline: Social Media Coordinator


TEI\-C Board of Directors Roadmap on Wiki
 
 Monthly Meetings (review existing time, second Tuesday of every
 month)
 Agenda Setting for March, April and May


Update on Pending Action Items









 Minutes
 
 
 1\.0 MEETING PROCEDURE AND OTHER ANNOUNCEMENTS
 
 The meeting was quorate.


1\.1 MB volunteered to review minutes.


1\.2 Hugh Cayless was introduced as Chair of the TEI Council and congratulated.




 2\.0 APPROVE BOARD MEETING MINUTES: 
 12\-01\-2016
Board members received the minutes on the morning of the present meeting, so approval
 of the minutes was tabled to be handled over email.


Action: MD to contact the rest of the Board by F 2/12 re: approval of
 January minutes.


Minutes were approved over email, with final vote received on 
 15 February.




 3\.0 UPDATE 2012 TEI CONFERENCE AND MEMBERS' MEETING HOSTED BY AUSTRIAN CENTRE FOR
 DIGITAL HUMANITIES (ACDH)
 
 3\.1 MD noted that the conference dates have been set for 
 26 \- 30 September 2016.


3\.2 The local hosts are working on the website. They have email set up and are ready
 to
 begin the work of organizing the conference.


3\.3 The local hosts have many questions about procedures; the most important of these
 is who will act as program chair. KT noted that the documentation contains a confusing
 array of role names; she supports the roles as MB proposed them in her email of 31
 January. MD turned to her own email of 7 February and the consultant role. MM noted
 that
 so much of how the conference is organized comes down to the local hosts and said
 he
 thought the documentation is fine as it stands. MD spoke to the large number of
 questions about how to proceed she has received from the current local hosts and notes
 that she simply does not have the information for which they are asking. They seek
 documentation with regard to the website, for example. This seems to be the point
 at
 which a program chair would enter the picture. MM responded that\-\-judging from
 historical evidence\-\-such questions must be resolved at the local level. MB noted
 that
 the website has always been the responsibility of the local hosts; what we need are
 precise guidelines regarding the conference itself\-\-specifically, how long it should
 be,
 including workshops, how many days? There is a need for precise information/guidance.
 MD
 noted that this is where we will benefit from the forthcoming report from Pip and
 Marjorie and Emmanuelle. MB remarked that the entire process was baffling and
 problematic. They used the most recent European TEI\-MM as their model (the meeting
 held
 in Rome in 2013\), and that was helpful.


Action: JU volunteered to write up some guidelines about banking and other
 money matters.


MB responded that the difficulties arose around basic question concerning the expected
 schedule for the conference, how to send the CFP, confusion with regard to who should
 do
 what and when. MD noted that a calendar will be useful; the local hosts in Vienna
 are
 looking for someone to turn to for guidance. MM volunteered to act as Conference
 Correspondent; he will advise the local hosts to operate “as locally as possible,
 as
 globally as necessary.” He asked whether everyone agreed with that advice. MB
 volunteered to send the framework used for the 2015 meeting to MM; they used the same
 theme, etc. that was used for the Evanston TEI\-MM in 2014\. The main issues were about
 who would set up the website if it was not the local host. MD noted the big overhead
 that goes with the website; the webmaster is currently on leave. She wondered whether
 the Vienna local hosts want to use WordPress as a way to ensure interim continuity.


Decision: MM will serve in role of Conference Correspondent between the
 Board and the local hosts in Vienna.


3\.4 Programme Chair?




 4\.0 PROGRAMME CHAIR FOR THE 2016 TEI MEMBERS' MEETING AND CONFERENCE
 
 4\.1 Propose a new model, modify existing model, or maintain status quo?


Action Item: Since we seem to have consensus that the local hosts should
 appoint the Program Chair, MD will contact the local hosts in Vienna with a message
 to
 that effect.


4\.2 Role of Treasurer in the PC


Discussion continued, turning to the roles of the Treasurer and Membership Secretary
 in
 the work of the Program Committee. JU noted that we often license conftool. If we
 are
 going to use conftool, we should take care of the licensing as soon as possible, but
 use
 of conftool is not a mandate. MM responded that this is another place where continuity
 makes sense; he suggests that we mandate use of conftool since it aids continuity.


Action Item: MD to work with JU on licensing conftool. JU is available to
 provide whatever information, assistance local organizers need.


4\.3 Role of Membership Secretary in the PC


In further discussion of current documentation regarding the TEI MM, we noted that
 references to the role of Executive Director should be eliminated and some of the
 responsibilities can be folded into the duties of the Membership Secretary.


As discussion continued with regard to roles on the Program Committee KT asked about
 the outline that can be found at [http://members.tei\-c.org/hosting](http://members.tei-c.org/hosting) ; MD responded that
 this information is rather dated. MD noted that there were some comments about the
 length of the TEI\-MM 2015, and she introduced a question about perhaps increasing
 selectivity. MM responded that this was a traditional pattern. The TEI\-MM tends to
 be
 too long and to take an enormous amount of time to attend. He suggested that perhaps
 the
 conference portion could be held over a day and a half, with two tracks. He noted
 that
 this might facilitate overlap of meetings of the Council with the conference. KT asked
 whether we need an entire week, or did we perhaps e xtend across the week in order
 to
 include workshops? MB noted she has never attended workshops at the TEI\-MM. In 2015,
 many local people wanted to attend workshops. We need not assume that an attendee
 will
 attend workshops, but they are very useful as outreach. MB argued that keeping the
 weeklong schedule is a good idea; we need not expect all participants to attend for
 the
 entire week.


Following up on MM’s comments, KT asked about Council’s in\-person meeting in Lyon.
 HC
 reported that Council’s meeting started on Sunday. They met also on Monday, had Tuesday
 off, and met again Wednesday morning. It made for a very long week. MD noted that
 we
 need to let organizers know that they should reserve space to accommodate the Council
 meeting as well as the other activities of the TEI\-MM/Conference. HC reported that
 Stefan Majewski is handling local organization of the Council meeting in Vienna. Council
 will follow the model of coordinating with the TEI\-MM that they tried in 2015\. It
 is not
 an absolute requirement to have the Council face\-to\-face meeting run at the same time
 as
 the TEI\-MM; such a model is contingent on many factors.




 5\.0 SELECT SOCIAL MEDIA COORDINATOR
 
 5\.1 MD noted that Paul O'Shea’s report is pending. She is working on documentation
 about this role on wiki. Paul is interested in continuing in this role. 


5\.2 Call for Applicants and Timeline: Social Media Coordinator


Do we need to issue a call or go with Paul and ask for better documentation, especially
 with regard to value of the role? MM repeated his skepticism about that value. MD
 noted
 that she has heard positive anecdotal feedback from James Cummings and Elena Pierazzo,
 and MM asked what evidence of value would look like. MD referred to the example of
 the
 work of Lynne Siemens on YouTube video and increases in interest in TEI. MD also noted
 that the work of the Social Media Coordinator includes not only Twitter, Facebook,
 but
 also editing the TEI blog. We have not yet quantified the value of this work. We can
 continue with Paul in the role and wait for evidence from him or we can choose not
 to do
 it. JU noted that having someone in this role it does not cost us much, though we
 do
 subsidize conference travel. MD remarked on the curation that Paul has done.


Action item: MD to confer with Paul; KT to help with assembling data if
 needed. 




 6\.0 TEI\-C BOARD OF DIRECTORS ROADMAP ON WIKI
 
 6\.1 Monthly Meetings (review existing time, second Tuesday of every month)


We discussed whether the existing time set aside for meetings of the Board\-\-the second
 Tuesday of every month\-\-works for everyone. JU commented that we should not change
 the
 time on his account; he usually has an institutional commitment at this time.


Decision: We will leave the time set aside for meetings of the Board as is
 for now; MD will consult with JU as needed.


6\.2 Agenda Setting for March, April and May


We also discussed other forms of communication. MD wants to try to work over email.
 She
 noted that the Google\+ Hangout was working much better than the customary conference
 calls. KT asked what other Board members thought about using GoogleDocs to take minutes;
 MD said it was working for her. MB commented that if we are to make decisions via
 email,
 the issue of how to keep track of such decisions remains; we will need minutes of
 e\-mail
 decision\-making. MD agreed, as she had been present for discussions of this issue.
 Part
 of the pending actions from the Lyon meeting continues to be tracking action items
 as we
 move ahead. The wiki space will also be useful. We should keep track of decisions
 made
 between monthly meetings to maintain transparency and we should add such decisions
 to
 monthly meeting minutes. We have not made any decisions over email in the past month
 that should be added to the minutes for the present meeting.


Action Item for KT: MD suggests sending a message to the list after minutes
 have been approved, summarizing some points. JU suggested KT write something in
 wiki\-\-compact list of decisions made, to avoid redux situations. KT seconded. MD
 referred to Action Items as place to deal with this concern. 




 7\.0 UPDATE ON PENDING ACTION ITEMS
 
 7\.1 Website


MD updated the Board with regard to the website. Nick is working on broken things
 on
 website; Nick and Kevin will be on the Board’s agenda for March. Some discussion ensued
 of onramping and similar concerns.


7\.2 Governance


MD noted that we should continue to discuss issues of governance the possibility of
 paying someone to handle the day\-to\-day tasks, cleaning house, and so forth. She said
 she is unsure how to handle this portion of the Action Items list. She has yet to
 look
 to questions about revising By\-Laws. So MD suggested we proceed with Action Items
 from
 Lyon.


7\.3 Accountant


We have hired an accountant to help JU. MD asked JU to speak to role of accountant.
 JU
 reported that he has doubts about how much work can be offloaded to accountant; JU
 and
 MM had a good video chat about some tasks MM will take over on the members front.


7\.4 Council and Board


MD noted that there are bigger questions, for example HC’s response about how overtaxed
 the Council is; we need to do a better job with communication between the Board and
 the
 Council. 


HC spoke to needs of the organization and the community, noting that there is not
 not
 100% overlap in the Venn diagram. From the perspective of Council, there might be
 issues
 of priority for handling certain concerns, for example. MM remarked that the main
 question is planning: we need to think about where we want to be five years from now;
 we
 need to commit to having adequate funds spent as frugally as possible and to having
 a
 clear idea of where we want to go. He noted that beyond the TEI community, the sense
 of
 who we are and what we do is quite underdeveloped. MB remarked that this is a very
 important question. We are very enclosed (siloed) in functions: Council sees to
 technical concerns and the Board keeps the ship sailing. Nobody is in charge of vision
 for the TEI. She remarked that she is not sure we want a single vision, though we
 might
 think of ways of encouraging initiatives from the community. This can be the way we
 can
 bring things forward in the next five years; this is a creative work\-\-we need to find
 ways to facilitate it. MD agreed that the Board should channel vision, not form it.
 She
 suggested that we work on ways to reach out to the TEI community, create a road
 map\-\-perhaps Social Media Coordinator can work on that. MM noted that ideas can come
 from individuals; we need to have framing conditions for the thriving of the
 organization. And MD ended the meeting on that note. The action items update are on
 the
 wiki, and she will contact people to work on documentation.


Minutes taken and encoded by KT.






