---
layout: page.njk
title: "TEI-C Board Meeting 2020-01-16"
---
# TEI-C Board Meeting 2020-01-16
via Zoom


Attending
=========


* Kathryn Tomasek (KT)
* Christiane Fritze (CF)
* Hugh Cayless (HC)
* Gimena del Rio Riande (GRR)
* James Cummings (JC)


Absent
======


* Luis Meneses (LM)
* Pip Willcox (PW)
* Martina Scholger (MS)


Action items from last meeting
==============================


* GV contact Luis to set up new conference documentation on webpage
* HC needs to look through membership database to get info for KT in advance of January membership campaign before January 9
* LM to grant access to HumaNum server as well as webpage for Infrastructure Group
* KT to consult with Virtual on plans to change by\-laws
* KT to send around proposal for extending Board terms to three years by Monday 16 December


New Action items
================


* CF to asks GV for approving the December minutes
* CF to put “finding a webmaster” on the February Meeting’s agenda
* KT to contact LM in order to create [https://tei\-c.org/meetings/documentation](https://tei-c.org/meetings/documentation)
* KT to email Kay Walter to introduce JC
* JC to liaise with Kay Walter re: TEI2020
* KT to email HC re: institutional memberships
* HC to train GRR on Wild Apricot
* CF to look for a ticketing system with export function (request of JC)
* HC/KT to contact Virtual about report on all of 2019/2020


Agenda
======


* + Meeting Procedures and Other Announcements
	+ Welcome and roles
	+ Tasks for the year (KT)
	+ Updates
		- Conference documentation (nomination PC chair)
		- Membership Campaign and Institutional Membership (HC)
		- Ticketing System for Board actions (LM)
		- Roles in the Council (MS)
		- Changing election terms for Board and Council Members
		- Website: structure and content (HC)
		- Internationalization strategy (HC, GRR)
		- Strategic budget allocations
		- TEI Journal (KT)
		- TAPAS Support / TEI Repository
		- FORCE 11 partnership (GRR)
		- Announcement of the Rahtz Price
	+ New Business
		- [MediaWiki TEI](https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Extension:TEI) extension (GRR)
		- Contributor Membership for the Akademie der Wissenschaften in Hamburg (GRR)
	+ Any Other Business


Minutes
=======


* Meeting Procedures and Other Announcements
	+ [minutes from December meeting](https://tei-c.org/board/board-tei-c-board-meeting-2019-12-12/) approved by GV, KT
* Welcome and roles
	+ BOD chair: Kathryn
	+ Membership liaison: HC and GRR
	+ Secretary: Christiane
	+ Webmaster: LM for now
	+ Treasurer: HC
	+ Elections: KT, JC, HC, Webmaster, Council Member
	+ Conference Liaison: JC
		- TEI2020: Kay Walter
		- TEI2021: James Cummings
* Updates
	+ Conference documentation (nomination PC chair)
		- Working on the conference programme: James commented on Georg’s document; recommends not setting in stone that LO chair is likely PC chair.
	+ Membership Campaign and Institutional Membership (HC)
		- HC will start the individual membership campaign by end of  January
		- how long we will run the campaign: to March
	+ Ticketing System for Board actions (LM)
		- CF has received email from LM indicating that GitHub can’t set tickets to private mode
		- Trello inefficient; Slack not the right thing
		- CF to look for another ticketing system, GRR suggests Asana
		- JC suggests being sure it’s possible to export to maintain history, hygiene
	+ Roles in the Council (MS)
		- MS email notes she has been re\-elected as chair
		- HC importance of balance of expertises in Council\-\-hardcore tech as well as newbies/people who would be a boon to documentation
		- JC suggests that this might be mitigated slightly with possible move to three\-year terms
		- HC: something to keep an eye on; address with ongoing attention rather than legislation\-\-should go in documentation for Nominating Committee
		- JC/HC suggest it can be handled via Nominating Committee
	+ Changing election terms for Board and Council Members
		- MS presents the proposal for Council terms
		- KT still needs to contact Virtual
	+ Website: structure and content (HC)
		- HC and Peter Stadler now have access to enable this work
		- set up a working group for restructuring the website
		- the Wordpress plugin for the menuing system is no more supported/updated
		- WP has an own menuing system, it looks a little bit different
		- set up a new WP without the old plugin and using instead the WP menuing system
		- do we need to keep the current look? (Probably not)
	+ Internationalization strategy (HC)
		- i18n group would be predicated on updating the website
		- we have permission from Council to proceed with an Internationalization Working Group\-\-HC, MS, GRR, Kiyonori Nagasaki, Helena Bermudez\-Sabel, and Luis Meneses
		- Although currently a Council Working Group it may become a SIG after initial work
		- Mellon Foundation has invited us to submit a proposal for an award to improve communication of the TEI to non\-English audiences, HC is spending some of his time working with his local institution and negotiating
		- GRR notes July\-November 2020 programme “global classrooms” GRR and Raff Vigliante are giving a course on “minimal editions,” producing new material in Spanish
		- GRR notes Argentinian DH conference as something to communicate to the TEI\-list and consider offering a TEI workshop: [https://www.aacademica.org/congreso2020\.aahd](https://www.aacademica.org/congreso2020.aahd)
	+ Strategic budget allocations
		- set on top of the agenda of next meeting
		- HC/KT to contact Virtual about report on all of 2019/2020
			* there is a new contact person
	+ Tasks for the year (KT)
		- Conference
		- Nominations and Elections
		- Redesigning and Restructuring of the website
		- Finding a new Webmaster
		- Installing the Infrastructure Group
		- Changing the bylaws for the 3 years terms of Board and Council
		- Other items from the Graz F2F Meeting
	+ TEI Journal (KT)
		- KT announces that John Walsh has stepped down and a new group of editors is installed
	+ TAPAS Support / TEI Repository
		- set on top of the agenda of nex meeting
	+ FORCE 11 partnership
		- set on top of the agenda of nex meeting
	+ Announcement of the Rahtz Price
		- set on top of the agenda of nex meeting
* New Business
	+ postponed [MediaWiki TEI](https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Extension:TEI) extension (GRR)
		- Should we install on our wiki.tei\-c.org?
	+ Contributor Membership for the Akademie der Wissenschaften in Hamburg (GRR) 
		- done by HC
* Any Other Business
	+ none


* +
