---
layout: page.njk
title: "TEI-C Board Meeting Minutes 2017-08-17"
---
# TEI-C Board Meeting Minutes 2017-08-17




### Attending


* Michelle Dalmau (MD)
* Kiyonori Nagasaki (KN)
* Laurent Romary (LR)
* Kathryn Tomasek (KT)
* John Unsworth (JU)
* Pip Willcox (PW)




### Agenda


  
 
 * Meeting Procedures and Other Announcements
* May Minutes Approved. Luis Meneses will post to web site.
* + Need to review [July 2017 minutes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Nq-c9lSE4XZiPJF7pqYx0dzLHdnMC4b_-YjzyU89I_4/edit?usp=sharing "July 2017 minutes"); to be approved over email (password protected)
* Nominations/Elections
	+ Review [Committee Appointments](https://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/TEI-C_List_of_Nominating_Committees "Committee Appointments")
	+ Finalize [Elections Timeline](https://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/TEI-C_and_TAPAS_Election_Timeline "Elections Timeline")
* Update on MM/Conference for 2018 and 2019
* Update on Rahtz Prize
* Update on the Zampolli Prize awarded at DH 2017




### Meeting Procedures and Other Announcements


May Minutes Approved. Luis Meneses will post to web site.
Need to review [July 2017 minutes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Nq-c9lSE4XZiPJF7pqYx0dzLHdnMC4b_-YjzyU89I_4/edit?usp=sharing "July 2017 minutes"); to be approved over email (password protected)


### Nominations/Elections


KN has appointed nominating committee: LR, TAPAS representative (TBA), Hugh Cayless,
 Alex Bia (both from the Council), Luis Meneses, who will be setting up OpaVote for
 the first time.
MD has contacted Julia Flanders re. TAPAS representative to ensure smooth communications
 following the election.
The Board agreed it was ready to open elections.
[Elections Timeline](https://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/TEI-C_and_TAPAS_Election_Timeline "Elections Timeline") was agreed: MD set timings using last year’s as a guide. We have a later start (and
 a later conference) and the voting period will be shorter. People tend to vote towards
 the end of the period, and this year (due to the later conference) it does not need
 to take account of a long holiday period.
KN to adjust dates on the wiki as the committee advances in its work. All to help
 KN as required throughout the process.
Review of [Committee Appointments](https://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/TEI-C_List_of_Nominating_Committees "Committee Appointments"): we will not wait on a TAPAS representative before opening the committee: that person
 could join later. Julia Flanders has confirmed there are two places to be filled on
 the TAPAS Board.
We are ready to open nominations.
The forms from last year helped streamline the process and avoid mistakes. Minor changes
 need to be made. PW to make changes. We all have access to the Google docs: [Elections" folder.](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/0BxFnLn8g8TOYV3J1Y3pKem5yaUU?usp=sharing "Elections\" folder.")
We have boilerplate for nominations, acceptance of nominations etc. We will duplicate
 the files before editing (to keep a record of the original as well). PW to make changes
 before everyone can edit.


### Treasurer:


MD to draft position description for new Treasurer and circulate for comments/approval.
 MD has made notes with JU on this, with the new responsibilities outlined. Timeline
 would be


### Virtual, Inc update:


JU reported that Virtual, Inc are working to the Members’ Meeting to have arrangements
 in place. This could be the time to announce the Treasurer, or to garner interest
 in applying for the position (depending on timing).
Bank account set up with Citizen Bank (saving money on wire transfer fees amongst
 other things). As usual, there is about $215,000 in the account. No recurring payments
 incoming. The few recurring outgoing payments go through PayPal (e.g. copy editing
 for the Journal). Automatic membership renewals will not go through (because the account
 will no longer exist): JU to start putting new bank information on invoices and institutional
 renewals and it will force people to update their details.
There are few recurring outgoing payments and no reimbursements owing.
Where should I record the banking information including routing and account numbers?
 Virtual, Inc will keep this. MD has the details stored securely locally.


### Update on Members’ Meeting/Conference for 2018 and 2019


Tokyo has accepted the invitation to host 2018\.
LR has discussed the 2018 workshop event with colleagues in Goettingen who understand
 the decision to go to Tokyo and are happy to arrange an event that will complement
 and not compete with the Members’ Meeting. This is likely to be in late spring 2018\.
Graz has accepted the invitation to host 2019\. They asked if they could announce it
 early and were asked not to make it public, saving the announcement for the Members’
 Meeting.
An early announcement for Tokyo is recommended due to its early date and the late
 date of this year’s Members’ Meeting to save the date. KN confirmed Tokyo is happy
 for an early announcement, at the same time as JADH, 12 September 2017\. MD will draft
 an announcement for review and subsequent dissemination soon. There will be space
 at the Members’ Meeting for KN or another representative to showcase the event with,
 e.g. a video or slideshow.


### Rahtz Prize update:


Excellent nominations received and awaiting review by MD and the Prize judging team.
 MD to pick this up and report back next meeting.


### Zampolli Prize awarded at DH 2017:


MD, KN, KT and PW all attended the acceptance speeches by Nancy Ide, Michael Sperberg\-McQueen,
 and Lou Burnard. It gave an excellent overview of the history of the TEI.
The speeches were recorded and MD will have access to the video. We will link to it
 from the TEI website. The TEI had a good showing at the DH 2017 conference with many
 papers discussing it and using it to power reported research.
MD to investigate whether we are able to edit it for showing at the Members’ Meeting.
Lou Burnard orchestrated the celebration of the community, asking current Board and
 Council members to stand, then former members, then everyone who has used the TEI,
 then everyone who dislikes the TEI—with the aim of getting the whole room to stand.
Lou Burnard made explicit the link with Antonio Zampolli and the early history of
 the TEI.
LR reported that at a recent conference many libraries discussed how they are using
 TEI. PW reminded the Board that Christine Madsen wrote a report on libraries and their
 Special Collections cataloguing, reporting that the majority used TEI. PW to circulate
 the report.
PW suggested that we identify funds for professionally editing the Zampolli speech
 recording to make a shorter version that can be used to promote the TEI to interested
 parties; consider enhancing the Zampolli speech by showcasing TEI projects to demonstrate
 what the TEI can do, by crowdsourcing suggestions from the List.


### PR campaign:


LR requested we return to discussions of this summer’s PR campaign. It is a timely
 opportunity, with the Zampolli Prize. MD suggests we take this up by email for summary/update
 next time we meet.
LR to compile where we are with membership drive; add next steps and implementation
 strategies to the next agenda.


