---
layout: page.njk
title: "TEI Board Minutes: Conference Call 2015-02-24"
---
# TEI Board Minutes: Conference Call 2015-02-24






 In attendance:
 
 * Elena Pierazzo (EP)
* Kevin Hawkins (KH)
* Marjorie Burghart (MB)
* Hugh Cayless (HC)
* Michelle Dalmau (MD)
* Pip Willcox (PW)
* Martin Mueller (MM)


Apologies: John Unsworth (JU)




 Agenda
 
 * Welcome to Hugh Cayless
* Minutes (Michelle)
* Updates from the conference chair (Pip)
* Call for hosts 2016 and possibly 2017
* Web master helper (Kevin)
* Website
* Investments (John)
* TEI\-TAPAS relationship




 Minutes
 
 
 Meeting procedures and other announcements


 MD: Should I insert email updates and discussions that occurred in response to the
 agenda into the official minutes or include them as an addendum?


EP: Reference the email reports (not in full).


MD: Needs a back\-up reviewer for today’s minutes. MM volunteered.




 
 Welcome to Hugh Cayless
 
 
 EP welcomes Hugh as a new Chair of the TEI Council.




 Minutes (Michelle)
 
 
 EP: Martin was not convinced that the contents of the January 2015 minutes were not
 accurate.


EP opens for discussion stating that we can not amend already approved minutes but
 can
 clarify the issue now.


No one responded.


Minutes from January 2015 were approved via email. No amendments recorded.




 Updates from the conference chair (Pip)
 
 PW: Local organizers are doing brilliant work. Setup Trello board for managing the
 conference planning and hosting tasks. The local organizers have hotel proposals and
 have negotiated discounts with two hotels, additional discounts for hotels are in
 progress. They have reserved the spaces for the conference proper and have a sponsor
 for
 the reception. Currently organizing location for dinner and working on web site.


PW: Details what needs to be done: finalizing the communication dossier, keynote.
 (see
 update from local organizers below for more detail).


Program committee has 8 people currently signed up. Pip recommends that we should
 aim
 for a large program committee since people may not be as available when it comes time
 to
 review. Pip has been targeting a range of different backgrounds. 


Pip then discussed having an executive sub\-committee which will decide on theme, title,
 call for papers/workshops. Marjorie and Emmanuelle came up with a theme: TEI Ecosystem.
 Pip has tested the theme with colleagues and some find the theme unapproachable
 (perceived as too scientific). 


The theme is supposed to capture the communities around TEI — people and tools.
 Animating TEI as another way to rephrase the theme. Pip would like to emphasize the
 community and how social it is and how powerful TEI is in creating or “animating”
 projects. Pip asked the Board for feedback on the theme.


EP: The Program Committee needs to discuss the theme with the local host. Once the
 programming committee and local host agree, the Board will agree.


EP: Needs the call for paper to go out very soon.


Pip supplied a report by the local hosts submitted by Marjorie and Emmanuelle for
 inclusion in the minutes: 






* Urgently to be done:
* + Finalize the communication dossier (which requires the theme and title of
	 the conference, and choice of keynotes)
	+ Apply for sponsorship funds (deadline March 6th): also requires precise
	 information about the conference theme, title and keynotes
* In progress:
* + inaugural cocktail organization
	+ Dinner (location and buffet)
	+ Looking for host for website
	+ two other hotel pre\-negotiated discount
* Done:
* + Trello board for the management of the hosting taslk (access given to Pip
	 Wicox)
	+ Hotel proposals (night \+ breakfast), with pre\-negociated discount):
	+ - Mama shelter: 105 eur
		- Axotel Perrache: 81 eur
	+ Locations reservations:
	+ - Workshops : ok Ens de lyon
		- First keynote wednesday : OK lyon 2
		- Poster exhibits: Ok Lyon 2
		- Members meeting: OK Lyon 2
		- GIS meetings: to be done Lyon 2
		- Conference amphitheatre: to be done Lyon 2
		- Business meeting: to be done at Lyon 2, ENS de Lyon ou ISH
		 Sponsorship
	+ Consortium CAHIER pays for inaugural cocktail




 Call for hosts 2016 and possibly 2017
 
 EP: Discussion about hosting the 2016 TEI\-C Members’ Meeting has been ongoing as well
 as the possibility of encouraging colleagues in Japan to put a forward a bid. MM,
 JU
 (and MD) would like to issue an open bid, which wouldn’t impact Japanese colleagues
 for
 submitting a bid.


EP: Based on email and phone discussions, the Council’s opinion and some people on
 the
 Board also feel that we shouldn’t limit ourselves, at this time, to recruiting bids
 only
 from North America and Europe.


EP: If we do an open call, it is a bit complicated. Last year the Board discussed
 encouraging Lyon to submit a bid. The Board first issued a call and then Elena targeted
 Lyon. Soon after, Norway then contacted EP which put her in an uncomfortable place.
 EP
 wants to make sure the process is fair. 


EP: Board is also concerned that the venue for the conference is easy to get to, which
 is why the Board has been intervening more in recent years.


MM: Feels strongly that we should have an open call and clearly state preferences
 (criteria) — a good host most be a place that has a connection with the TEI, easy
 to get
 to, etc. Give people a chance to compete. If by the end of the open call, we have
 no
 competitors or not an ideal competitor, then the Board could more actively
 intervene.


MD: Agrees with Martin about issuing an open call and clearly setting forth the
 selection criteria.


PW: Make the criteria clear … to make sure we reach as broad an audience as
 possible.


MB: Torn. In favor of an open call. But there are schedule issues. If we have to wait
 to recruit after the deadline, it may be difficult to negotiate under time pressure.
 The
 idea of the Board actively seeking a host is probably a good thing — good to target
 people. We just need to be careful in how we combine the two — for political and
 scheduling reasons. 


MM: The problem of “too late in the year” can be solved by having the call for host
 issued early\-on. Doesn’t see a problem in encouraging people to submit a bid so long
 as
 there is no commitment. It has to go through a review process like all bids. 


MM: In 2012, made a casual suggestion that Chicago was interested. There was never
 a
 call for 2014\. We need more openness and rigor. 


MM: Open the bid now, close it mid\-May. Let’s give a try.


EP: There were two bids that year: College Station and Saskatoon. Both were challenging
 locations. 


EP: After College Station, we had no bids so the Board became more actively involved
 in
 seeking out host institutions.


MM: We really should have an open bid now.


MB: We need to have the bid as early as possible. Each board member could function
 as
 an ambassador. We can target several people/institutions and encourage them to submit
 proposals.


PW: Need to be clear on the criteria and grateful in our feedback, especially if we
 need to turn proposals down.


MD: Could we clarify our criteria, then? We can do it now or over email, but since
 we
 have agreed to send a proposal, we need to agree on the criteria. 


EP: Elena just forwarded the last call, sent out in 2014 for 2015\. We should review
 that call and suggest amendments. Elena will send the call after we review the call
 and
 amend to make selection criteria apparent.


EP: In Martin’s proposal, he also asked to include 2017?


MM: That could be one way to deal with assessing multiple strong proposals. If we
 have
 two good bids, we have one in 2016 and one in 2017\. Or maybe it’s more complicated.


MB: If we alternate locations, it may be too far to decide.


EP: Proposals could be solid one year, but people submitting the proposals may leave
 the institution.


The bid will only be issued for 2016 to keep things simpler.


PP: Needs to clarify in the call that 2017 is option for consideration as well.


MM raised confusing language in the bid proposal guidelines that makes it seem the
 local host will be incurring an expense when the expense is covered entirely by the
 TEI.


MM: If you read the current call, it can imply that the host will need to spend money.
 The host puts in a lot of effort and time, but not necessarily cash.


MB: Thought the bid process was a bit intimidating. The 4th point — give an indication
 of all financial support local organization is willing to give. That point contradicts
 the reality that the TEI covers the cost.


MD inquires if a host offering cash to offset cost is part of the selection criteria.
 EP suggests that it could be and the Board would need to decide if that is part of
 the
 decision\-making process.




 Website / Web master helper (Kevin)
 
 EP: Need to create a new committee to oversee the TEI\-C web site. Lou was going to
 chair this. Since we have Kevin as webmaster, EP asked Kevin to be part of the team
 and
 also asked if Kevin is willing to chair the committee.


KH: Was supposed to be on this committee to oversee the TEI\-C web site based on past
 meeting minutes, but no formal invitation was issued. We need to recharter this team
 and
 he’s willing to lead the group. How do we appoint members?


EP: The Web site Team Chair would be encouraged to find people — someone from the
 council would be a good addition. Lou Burnard and John Unsworth could be ex\-officio.
 Part of the chair’s mandate is to provide cost options for a HTML 5 versus TEI\-native
 web site (philosophical point of contention that could be decided based on cost).
 


KH: Would secure quotes for both options.


HC: Offered to participate in the web site group.


MM: Asks why we need to change the web site?


KH: Will send a message about why we need to budget and plan for ongoing changes and
 maintenance of the TEI\-C web site rather than to use meeting time to explain. 


EP: Before Kevin was Webmaster, he was the helper. Need someone to learn the CMS
 structure of the site and serve as a helper to Kevin.


EP: Would like to do an open\-call for an assistant webmaster (like the social media
 manager); in\-kind service.


MB: Notes that the assistant web master is a hard task. It is a bit unfair that we
 don’t offer compensation for that while we compensate the social media position. Could
 we link the tasks?


KH: Kevin agrees with Marjorie about the discrepancy between one getting compensated
 and the other, not.


MB: It’s not too far\-fetched for the social media and assistant web master be the
 same
 person. We might consider this the next time.


KH: Doesn’t think we should necessarily link them.


PW: Is there money in the budget to cover both? We shouldn’t privilege one or the
 other.


EP: Asks Kevin to clarify the nature of the work and tasks.


KH: It depends on how much the main webmaster does.


When working with David S., Kevin spent his time assisting David (or reminding) him
 about pending tasks and taking the initiative to do the pending work himself.


KH: Right now, mostly concerned about having a back\-up person for the site and email
 lists. Someone who has technical capacity and is dependable. We could do an open call
 but we should be sure whether or not we will have compensation.


EP: The Webmaster now is compensated by covering the costs for attending the members’
 meeting. We have money that we can offer to an assistant web master, but the more
 we use
 from our pot, the less we have for other strategic initiatives. Is the webmaster
 assistant job an essential activity of the TEI?


KH: Try an open call with no compensation offered. If we don’t get a good pool, we
 should reconsider compensation.


MB: Not sure we were right in compensating the social media position. It creates a
 precedence. It could be my social media bias.


EP: The board evaluated the social media position after one year and felt it was the
 best money we have ever spent. The outreach has been positive.


MB: Think of a different way of framing volunteer work. Could we offer membership
 to
 his or her institution?


EP: Agrees that this a good idea, but we need to close the meeting. Our time is up.
 We
 need to continue this discussion over email.




 Investments (John)
 
 EP: John sent a report over email that MD will include in the minutes.


On February 19th, 2015, JU sent the following update to the TEI board members list:


My brief on item 7 is ... brief. Having looked around a bit, I
 think Vanguard funds are probably the right place to put some funds to work earning
 more
 than they do in our checking account. Non\-profits can be customers of Vanguard, but
 the
 application process is more cumbersome than for individuals, and I am in the process
 of
 changing our accounting firm from the one in Evanston to one closer to me, in
 Massachusetts. I have a phone call with one candidate for that work today at 3:30\.
 The
 Evanston accountant will file our taxes this year, and that'll happen before too long,
 and I'd like to get our business shifted over to the new firm before launching the
 Vanguard arrangement, because I'd like their help and oversight in that process. 




 TEI\-TAPAS relationship
 
 Either discuss over email or place on next month’s agenda. 




Next board meeting: 7 April 2015\. 






