---
layout: page.njk
title: "TEI Board Conference Call: 9 May 2006"
---
# TEI Board Conference Call: 9 May 2006









Chris Ruotolo


The meeting commenced shortly after 1500 UTC, with the following in attendance: 


* Syd Bauman (SB)
* Lou Burnard (LB)
* Julia Flanders (JF)
* John Lavagnino (JL)
* Veronika Lux (VL)
* Daniel O'Donnell (DO)
* Daniel Pitti (DP)
* Sebastian Rahtz (SR)
* Chris Ruotolo (CR)
* John Unsworth (JU)
* Matt Zimmerman (MZ)


Action items from last conference call
 
  1\. Approval of minutes from last conference call: [http://www.tei\-c.org/Board/bm15\.xml](/Board/bm15.xml)* Minutes were approved, with no changes suggested.
2\. SB: report on meeting with DLF* SB reported on the meeting of the DLF\-sponsored TEI in Libraries group, which took
 place in Washington, DC in February. Perry Willett, Natasha Smith, Matt Gibson, David
 Seaman, and Chris Powell were the other attendees. Minutes of the meeting have not
 yet
 been posted. The group worked on revisions to the [TEI in Libraries](http://www.diglib.org/standards/tei.htm) document. They
 also discussed the possibility of creating a TEI Tight DTD that would reconcile some
 of
 the existing library keyboarding specifications. Since the February meeting, the
 conversation has continued over email. The next meeting is tentatively scheduled for
 June in New Orleans.


DP noted that DLF leadership will change at the end of the year, and that DLF's
 commitment should be locked in before that time. JU suggested moving the responsibility
 for TEI Tight off of Matt Gibson; JF suggested Natasha Smith as a possible replacement,
 stressing the TEI's independent interest in a TEI Tight schema and the need for a
 point
 person who would consider the project from the TEI's perspective. Chris Powell and
 Merrilee Proffitt were also mentioned as possible leaders for the project.


MZ
Check in with Matt Gibson about work on
 TEI Tight, and possibly approach Natasha Smith about moving the project forward.
3\. SR, CR, JU: report any development with moving website to Virginia* CR reported that OpenCMS has been installed on J2, the IATH test server. Amit Kumar
 and
 Shayne Brandon are working together to install Amit's XML extension module for OpenCMS;
 the installation should be completed next week, at which point CR will move test pages
 and stylesheets over to J2 to test the functionality. JF and CR have been working
 to
 organize and draft content for the new site, which will be circulated to the Board
 for
 review. 


MZ, CR, JF
Discuss and set a deadline for
 presenting new website content to the Board for review
MZ, JF, DP, VL: Discuss the role of Executive Director. * No discussion has yet taken place. 
 MZ, JF, DP,
 VL
Discuss the role of Executive Director.
MZ, CR: Review secretary language in the Bylaws to ensure that we are in compliance.* No discussion has yet taken place. 
 MZ,
 CR
Review secretary language in the Bylaws to ensure that we are in
 compliance.
DO, MZ: look into donation system* An online registration system will be in place for the 2006 Members' Meeting, and
 registration fees will go into a PayPal account. PayPal accounts are easy and free
 to
 set up; the fee for each transaction is 3% plus $.30\. DO noted that PayPal is
 controversial, in part because it is loosely regulated, but he suggested that we will
 probably be OK if we're accepting donations rather than selling products. LB reiterated
 the suggestion that we explore the SourceForge mechanism for accepting donations.
 DO has
 investigated CaféPress and said there would be "no downside" to setting up a free
 site
 for selling TEI\-branded t\-shirts and mugs. JF emphasized that whatever donation system
 we pursue should also allow us to accept payment for conferences and memberships,
 and DO
 noted that both PayPal and Amazon would allow us to do that. 


DO mentioned the Mellon Foundation's [Research in
 Information Technology](http://rit.mellon.org/) grant program. TEI might be eligible if we were to
 "project\-ize" an aspect of technical development such as P5, ODD, or Roma. The RIT
 grant
 is oriented toward projects that produce customizable software, where it’s too expensive
 for any one group to do it. DO also mentioned the Canadian Foundation for Innovation
 (CFI) grant, but that requires a Canadian partner institution.


The Board briefly discussed the challenges of getting Mellon funding. Mellon is
 inclined to give its money to universities rather than freestanding organizations
 like
 TEI, and they are reluctant to fund standards development. TEI's most recent Mellon
 funding was in support of the Electronic Textual Editing book, which still isn't out.
 JU
 mentioned that Mellon and IMLS are hosting a meeting in June to talk about the
 forthcoming ACLS report on cyberinfrastructure, which emphasizes standards work. JU
 will
 report back to the Board on how we might apply for funding. 
 DO, MZ JU
next meeting: report back about plans for packaging to
 foundations. 
 MZ
look into
 PayPal, SourceForge donation system, and CaféPress


New Business
 
 
 JF: report on plans for 2006 Members meeting.* JF reported that plans for the meeting are on track. The venue has been secured, the
 call for posters has been issued, and registration should open shortly. The planning
 team is working on securing sponsors. MZ has developed a prospectus that outlines
 what
 can be sponsored and at what cost. Possible sponsors include SyncRO Soft, Apex, and
 Amigos; academic institutions and publishers were also suggested. The possibility
 of a
 book exhibit was discussed briefly, with follow\-up discussion relegated to email.
 


JF noted that we did not receive the funding we requested for the meeting. We will
 need
 to contact the invited speakers (Liam Quin, Steve Ramsay, John Lavagnino, and Dan
 O'Donnell) to ensure that they are still willing to participate.


JF
19 May 2006Post an update on the meeting
 arrangments to the Board mailing list.
DO: report on Nominations Committee* MZ and DO will communicate via email to discuss procedures for the Committee.


DO
Report on Nominations
 Committee
MZ: report on TEI Council meeting and TEI Day in Japan.* The TEI Council meeting will take place in Kyoto on May 18th\-19th. Christian Wittern
 has a grant to cover travel expenses for five Council members; TEI will cover the
 rest.
 The meeting will coincide with [TEI Day](http://coe21.zinbun.kyoto-u.ac.jp/tei-day/tei-day2006.html.en) in
 Japan. The first part of the day will feature presentations by Japanese TEI users,
 while
 the afternoon will feature presentations by several members of the Council.
Discussion of TEI logo, "P5\-ready" logo, and TEI file icon* It was suggested that James Cummings might be willing to draft a plan describing usage
 of the logos. 


MZ
Approach James about drafting
 recommendations for using the "P5\-ready" logo and TEI file icon, and circulate these
 to
 the Board.
LB ISO agreement.* LB reported that he's had no feedback regarding the ISO agreement. He noted that the
 agreement doesn't obligate us to much, and doesn't prevent us from doing anything
 either. In early discussions with ISO, they seemed to be asserting ownership of pieces
 of the TEI; this agreement assures that we get to keep anything we make. 


MZ then called a vote on officially endorsing the ISO agreement, and the motion carried
 unanimously.
JF: ALLC internationalization grant.* JF discussed the status of the [internationalization proposal](/I18N/). There still seems to be some confusion on the
 ALLC's part about what we proposed, but hopefully they will discuss and vote on the
 proposal at their July meeting in Paris. JF has been in frequent communication with
 the
 ALLC to emphasize how much public support and excitement the internationalization
 proposal has generated. Alternate funding possibilites were discussed. The technical
 aspects of the project could be pitched to Mellon, perhaps under the RIT grant discussed
 earlier. The amount of money required is fairly modest (about $10,000 USD).
VL: Recruiting Strat* No action on the recruiting strategy so far. 
 MZ,
 VL
Review the strategy and start assigning tasks; discuss how
 to move forward with the recruiting plan.
MZ, DO
Review former plans about
 individual memberships.
MZ: Questions about recruiting while in Japan * MZ mentioned that he will be in Bergen and Kyoto in the next couple of weeks, and
 that
 this will be a good opportunity for recruiting new TEI members. He asked about the
 fee
 schedule for different levels of membership. JF noted that the "div" system for
 prospective members is basically an honor system, as numbers about TEI users are rough
 and hard to verify. She suggested proposing a div level that's likely to be appropriate,
 and allowing prospective members some flexibility in joining at a higher or lower
 level.


The meeting adjourned at approximately 1600 UTC.




