---
layout: page.njk
title: "TEI Board Telecon held 21 July 2005"
---
# TEI Board Telecon held 21 July 2005





 
 Notes on TEI Board Conference Call of 21 July 2005
 
 
 Present* Veronika, Sebastian, Julia, Syd, John L, Lou, Daniel, Matt Z, Matt G, John U.
Members meeting* Matt Z reported on the tentative schedule for the two day event. There would be
 four speakers, one "Ten Minutes of Fame" session, probably a report from the
 executive director, a single session for SIG meetings, and a session for posters
 and tools demos. The Board approved these proposals and noted that speakers and
 the final programme should be agreed as soon as possible. The meeting would follow
 a separate conference/workshop being organized by Anissava which might perhaps
 provide some speakers. It was noted that council member Matthew Driscoll would
 also be on the spot and should be invited to join the organizing committee. 
 Matt Z to contact Matt D and invite him to join
 the organizing committee. The Board discussed possible speakers:
 specific suggestions included a Francophone contribution to be organized by
 Veronika and Jean\-Luc; Fabio Ciotto; someone from a major European funding agency.
 Lou agreed to approach Tony McEnery, the newly appointed head of research at the
 UK's AHRC. The Board agreed that the 4k budget for speaskers should be allocated
 as necessary to cover travel expenses. and that Matt Z would continue to handle
 administrative details for the members 1\.5 day event. Preparations for the
 Business Meeting should be initiated asap: 
 Julia, Veronika, Daniel to consult on necessary preparation for Business
 Meeting. Turning to possible commercial sponsorship of the event,. Syd
 reported that Syncrosoft would probably sponsor a drinks reception on the first
 evening. Board members were asked to consider other possibilities, e.g. Apex.
 
 John U to approach Apex for possible
 sponsorship
Budget* Daniel reported that he had installed a piece of software called Quicken to
 help with the accounts and that he was waiting for the Nancy team to bring the
 membership database up to date. There was some discussion about the current status
 of the membership database. Veronika confirmed that all available data had been
 loaded and brought up to date, and that the functions requested in the initial
 spec were now all implemented on the server, which would shortly be moving from
 Loria to INIST. Daniel gave a brief uypdate on the current financial position (see
 further below); a preliminary budget for the year would be available shortly.
 
 Daniel to circulate preliminary budget
 early Augiust
Membership Management* As noted, a redesigned mySQL database was now available and carrying live data
 imported from Bergen and Virginisa. Development of the interfac e at Loria was
 ongoing; the move to INIST would provide additional security. The Board requested
 that the existing link on the website at http://www.tei\-c.org/membership.php
 should be updated to point to the current database as soon as possible 
 Daniel and Veronika to provide live current
 membership link on the website.
TEI Tight* Matt G reported that the DLF was sponsoring an initiative to aggregate the
 various TEI\-P4 \-based DTDs in use amongst their members to define a single "tight"
 dtd for data capture, which leading data vendors might offer to TEI members at a
 discount. There seemed to be an opportunity to define a member benefit here. Lou
 asked for clarification as to the extent to which this was a TEI activity, for
 example whether its output would be ratified by the TEI council. Matt G said that
 the effort was effectively a new incarnation of the TEI in Libraries SIG, and that
 its recommendations would indeed by submitted to the Council. Sebastian noted that
 it should be possible to map the "tight" specification to either P4 or P5 schemas.
 The Board welcomed this initiative and asked for further details. 
 Matt D to provide Board with further details
 about the TEI Tight initiative
Internationalization project* Sebastian reported that he and Veronika were preparing a funding bid to the
 ALLC, who have indicated that £10000 might be available fopr I18N work. The money
 would be used as follows: 20% to fund necessary tool development to provide a
 translators interface and changes to Roma to make use of the translations; 80%
 towards commissioning 5 language translations. Although this would not pay for
 professional translation, it would make significant contribution to existing
 translation activities such as that currently underway within AFNOR. The work
 would consist of translating the element and attribute names, and the associated
 
 desc and 
 gloss. The activity would be coordinated by VL and
 SR, and the money disbursed by Nancy. Sebastian also reported that the W3C i18n
 ITS Working Group had agreed to let him join the group as invited expert on behalf
 of the TEI. Julia suggested that a session at the members meeting about I18N
 activities would be useful.
Other Business* An appeal was made for nominations to the Board. John U suggested Robin Cover.


After the meeting, Daniel supplied the following brief financial statement:
 


\> 1/1/2005 Through 7/22/2005 Category†Description 1/1/2005\- 7/22/2005
 INCOME Uncategorized 197\.57 (to be identified) Interest Inc 16\.57 Meeting sponsor
 600\.00 Membership dues 488\.00 (not yet assigned to sub\-category) Div 0 24,970\.00
 Div 2 9,699\.00 Div 3 7,543\.00 TOTAL Membership dues 42,700\.00 Subscriber 500\.00
 TOTAL INCOME 44,014\.14 EXPENSES Account administration 3,125\.01 Bank Charge 437\.09
 Editor 30,440\.57 Insurance 1,500\.00 Trademark 1,054\.62 Travel Board Meeting
 6,919\.93 Council Meeting 11,145\.90 Working group 843\.90 TOTAL Travel 18,909\.73
 TOTAL EXPENSES 55,467\.02 OVERALL TOTAL \-11,452\.88 Account Balance as of 7/22/2005:
 44,990\.12 



