---
layout: page.njk
title: "TEI Board Conference Call: 24 January 2006"
---
# TEI Board Conference Call: 24 January 2006









Chris Ruotolo


The meeting commenced shortly after 1500 UTC, with the following in attendance: 


* Syd Bauman (SB)
* Lou Burnard (LB)
* Julia Flanders (JF)
* John Lavagnino (JL)
* Veronika Lux (VL)
* Daniel O'Donnell (DO)
* Daniel Pitti (DP)
* Sebastian Rahtz (SR)
* Chris Ruotolo (CR)
* John Unsworth (JU)
* Matt Zimmerman (MZ)


The original [agenda](/Board/bm15a.xml) was modified due to time constraints.


 1\. JF and MZ: Report on meeting protocol document and developments for the 2006
 meeting.* JF reported that the conference program committee has worked out an advantageous
 arrangement with the hotel and will sign the contract within the next week. The room
 rate of $90 CAD ($75 USD) is quite reasonable and if a minimum of 80 guest rooms are
 booked, the cost of the meeting rooms will be reduced from $3200 to $1300\. The committee
 has talked about having the Text Analysis Developers Alliance (TADA) meeting colocated
 with the TEI meeting, which would help increase the number of attendees. The next
 step
 is to start working on the program, which will depend somewhat on the fate of the
 grant
 funding request. The meeting will be held on 27\-28 October 2006, with the Board meeting
 on the 29th.


 JF mentioned the draft [meeting
 protocol document](/Board/bw09.xml) and asked for input. She noted that the Board list discussion
 about possibly making the meeting more conference\-like is relevant here, and that
 the
 protocol document should not be finalized until that discussion is resolved.
 2\. JU to report on action item: Coordinate a discussion among institutions who have
 developed such a restricted TEI subset in library digitization, see if they perceive
 a
 benefit in harmonizing these, and to see if they're interested in participating in
 a
 brokerage (two separate questions). Will work with Matt Gibson and Syd on this.* JU talked to some GSLIS instructors about making this a graduate class project, but
 the
 timing couldn't be worked out. JU will get an update on the current state of affairs
 from Perry Willett. He will also ask Wendell Piez what it would cost to have Mulberry
 reconcile the various TEI subsets, which would avoid the need for a committee and
 allow
 us to put a proposal in front of libraries quickly.


LB noted overlap with projects already underway: for example, M. Driscoll's
 personography work item for the Council and L. Romary's group looking at TEI headers
 for
 grey literature. LB mentioned that he is also working on a new P5\-compliant version
 of
 TEI Lite, and suggested that all these activities should be coordinated.


 DP recommended Elizabeth Shaw as a freelance consultant who might be a good choice
 for
 the reconcilliation work. LB noted that we have no budget for this work in 2006\. SB
 mentioned a Digital Library Federation (DLF) meeting on this topic on 12\-13 February
 2006; he will attend, along with David Seaman, Matt Gibson, Perry Willett, and others.
 SB will explain what a P5 "TEI Tight" might look like, and thinks the meeting will
 focus
 on working out a spec. JU suggested that TEI and DLF could split the cost of a
 consultant, if necessary.


SB 
28 February 2006 Report on DLF meeting to
 the Board and Council
 JU stressed the goal of this work: to provide a member benefit specifically aimed
 at
 smaller projects so they can negotiate with participating vendors to have keyboarding
 done according to a uniform spec at reduced cost.
3\. MZ P4 Guidelines in MLA document* JU summarized two questions from email discussion about MLA's forthcoming Electronic
 Textual Editing (ETE): whether to include the PDF version of P4 on the CD along with
 the
 HTML version, and whether to include a current snapshot of P5 or just a reference
 to it.
 The Board debated the latter question, with LB arguing for including the snapshot
 in the
 interest of dissemination, and JF arguing that the version of P5 on the CD may become
 instantiated in a "bizarrely anachronistic way". DO suggested that URLs for the
 Guidelines be prominent on the CD label, thus encouraging people to get the info online.
 LB agreed that it's important that the Board review the CD label and the introductory
 page in advance. 


MZ called a vote on a recommendation for including a snapshot of P5 on the CD. The
 motion carried 5\-4, with MZ, DO, JL, VL, and SR voting in favor. MZ then called a
 second
 vote on whether to include the PDF version of P4 on the CD. The motion carried 8\-1,
 with
 SR against and all others in favor.


DO suggested linking heavily to the website, as the PDF is good for printing but
 otherwise not as useful as the online version. LB quoted from the proposed index page,
 which emphasizes the HTML.
4\. CR New design of TEI site* The Board briefly discussed the new site design. MZ asked if usability experts were
 involved in the design and suggested that this would be a good idea. SR asked how
 the
 site is currently delivered, and CR replied that currently static HTML pages are
 generated from TEI source using Saxon. SR asked how navigation is to be generated,
 at
 which point MZ proposed that the rest of the design discussion be shifted to email.
5\. CR, SR, JU : Transition of authoritative website from Oxford to Virginia. Some
 choices to be presented by the working group to the board, for discussion at the next
 board conference call. * The Board discussed the possibility of purchasing a dedicated server for the TEI
 website. LB pointed out that the server decision depends on which technology is chosen
 for the website. SR added that if the Board is to pay for a server, it must have a
 say
 in the technology. JU noted that the decisions about the server and the delivery
 technology are intimately linked. He proposed that a subgroup (JU, SR, CR, Amit Kumar,
 Shayne Brandon) discuss the issues further and report back to the Board as a plan
 takes
 shape. This will be a standing action item for the next few Board meetings.


JU, SR, CR 
? Continue to discuss website
 server and technology issues and report back to the Board.
6\. Recruiting group: JF, VL, JL: Produce a recruiting strategy for the coming year,
 for discussion at the next Board conference call.* VL has drafted a [recruiting strategy document](recruitingStrategyV3.html), which will be posted to the website and
 discussed over email.
7\. Fundraising group: MZ, DO: Produce an interim fund\-raising strategy for the
 coming year, for discussion at the next Board conference call.* MZ presented two fundraising ideas: a PayPal donation button on the TEI website,
 and TEI\-branded items for sale, perhaps through a CafePress store. SR noted that the
 TEI
 SourceForge page provides a donation mechanism which has not yet been exploited. JF
 suggested setting up the TEI website to accept credit cards, which would streamline
 membership payment; DP pointed out that this may run afoul of Virginia policy and
 must
 be investigated.

 JF emphasized the need for more substantive fundraising in addition
 to the two strategies proposed above, and identified $200,000 per year as a target
 figure
 for keeping the TEI stable and solvent. 
 DO,
 MZ 
? Look into setting up a donation system and a CafePress
 store
8\. DP to report on action items: Discuss with Bank of America how we might invest
 the
 balance forward, so that it earns interest.* This action item will be carried over to the next Board meeting. JU mentioned that
 rules about TEI's non\-profit status affect what interest it can earn. DP praised Nancy's
 new membership database.


DP 
? Discuss with Bank of America how we
 might invest the balance forward, so that it earns interest.
9\. Discussion of the role of the Secretary and Executive Director.* After a brief discussion, the Board decided not to bother with revising the Bylaws.
 MZ,
 JF, VL, and DP will discuss the role of Executive Director. MZ and CR will review
 the
 Secretary language in the Bylaws to ensure that we are in compliance. 


MZ, JF, VL, and DP 
? Discuss the role of
 Executive Director.
MZ, CR 
? Review secretary language in the
 Bylaws to ensure that we are in compliance.
10\. Other business* DO asked about procedures for the nominating committee, and MZ agreed to work with
 him
 on that issue. 


LB will re\-post notes about his correspondence with ISO regarding rights associated
 with the P5 feature structures chapter, for discussion over email. 


The Board agreed to hold quarterly conference calls, and MZ will schedule the next
 one.




