---
layout: page.njk
title: "TEI Board Meeting: 16 October 2011"
---
# TEI Board Meeting: 16 October 2011









Sarah Wells


Certification of the meeting* The meeting was certified at \~8:00 UTC, with the following members present:
 John Unsworth (JU), Lou Burnard (LB), Daniel O'Donnell (DO), Susan
 Schreibman (SS), John Walsh (JW), Sarah Wells (SW), Sophie David (SD), Marin
 Dacos (MD), and James Cummings (JC), representing Oxford. 


Arianna Ciulla, Laurent Romary, and Wayne Graham were unable to attend.
Opening Business* Before appointing officers, there was some discussion about how to handle the
 upcoming change of Board membership at the end of the year. Since two
 members of the Board are finishing their terms this year and four new
 members will be beginning their terms in January, the Board decided to vote
 for officers through the end of this year and then revisit them in
 January.


There was some discussion of whether it would be useful to schedule a
 face\-to\-face meeting of all or part of the Board early in 2012\. Phone
 conferences raise a host of problems, not least of which are unreliable
 connections and language problems for non\-native speakers of English trying
 to follow an often rapid discussion with several participants. LB raised the
 possibility of holding a meeting in Paris in January, which could be
 attended by European members of the Board. North American participants might
 join the meeting by phone, if necessary. Alternatively, a face\-to\-face
 meeting could be scheduled around the DH conference in July.
Appoint Officers * Chair+ JU was formerly welcomed and voted in as interim Chair. The Board
	 also thanked him for stepping in on short notice.
	Secretary+ SW, the outgoing Secretary, is stepping down, and JW volunteered to
	 take over beginning in January. The Board provisionally approved JW
	 (to be finalized by next year's Board). SW will remain as Secretary
	 through the end of the year.
	Treasurer and Membership Secretary+ SW wishes to step down as Treasurer, but will serve until a
	 successor is appointed. Dot Porter of Indiana University has
	 expressed interest in taking over, but she does not have the
	 administrative support to handle the accounting tasks. The Treasurer
	 position and associated accounting tasks (such as receiving payments
	 and bills processing) have been handled by the University of
	 Virginia for the past several years, but accounting tasks could be
	 outsourced to an external accountant. Virginia is willing to
	 continue these tasks at least through the end of year, to allow time
	 to move files and possibly change banks.
	
	
	This year, the Treasurer took over some of the tasks of the
	 Membership Secretary, including issuing membership invoices,
	 maintaining the membership database, and handling membership
	 requests. The Board decided that these tasks should remain with the
	 Treasurer for the time being. 
	
	
	That being agreed upon, the remaining duties of the Membership
	 Secretary include recruitment and maintenance of membership. If a
	 paid external accountant handles the daily accounting work, would it
	 make sense to ask the new Treasurer to take on the Membership
	 Secretary position as well? JU proposed that he approach Dot Porter
	 to take over both, and that TEI find more efficient methods for
	 handling our membership maintenance tasks. JU has already asked
	 Webmaster David Sewell (DS) to investigate open source tools
	 designed for non\-profits needing to track membership information. DO
	 is willing to work w/DS to coordinate that effort with the ZenCart
	 set\-up we have for receiving credit card payments and hopefully
	 combine everything together. 
	
	
	This leaves the element of recruitment duties for membership. Is that
	 something that everyone is responsible for or membership secretary?
	 JU will talk to DP and see how much she is willing and able to
	 undertake.
	Council Chair+ JU had previously asked the Council for nominations for the Council
	 Chair and was given three: Laurent Romary, Sebastian Rahtz, and JC.
	 JC recused himself, and after a brief discussion the Board appointed
	 JC as Council Chair. JC's term on Council ends in December, 2012, so
	 a replacement representative will need to be brought in to replace
	 him. The Board also noted with much gratitude Laurent’s four years
	 of service as Council Chair.
	SIG Coordinator+ The SIG Coordinator position, currently empty, is not specified in
	 the bylaws, but the position has been around for the past few years.
	 Right now, there are ten SIGs, with regular additions and
	 subtractions. SS and LR had a template for process of forming SIGs.
	 Originally, the SIG Coordinator position was intended to be a minder
	 for individual SIGs, but that was not a success. The position has
	 proved most effective when held by someone who can advocate directly
	 to the Board and/or Council, i.e., a Board or Council member. JU
	 proposed that SS be SIG Coordinator until she leaves Board in
	 January, when the Board can appoint a replacement. 
	
	
	There was some discussion of the place and function of SIGS. LB noted
	 that the SIGs shouldn’t be only way to engage with the community.
	 There is danger in setting up a situation where only members of
	 approved groups have access to grant money (which is currently
	 earmarked for SIGs). JU pointed out that these don’t replace
	 workshops and the like, and DO suggested that SIGs could be widened
	 and not so exclusive. LB advocated for Board activity that fosters
	 community engagement. Maybe the SIG grants could be renamed TEI
	 community grants? The Board decided to address that question later,
	 and SS was approved as interim SIG Coordinator.
Budget* JU clarified the editorial infrastructure line item on the 2011 budget. The
 TEI budget follows the calendar year (Jan. 1 \- Dec. 31\), but Oxford’s fiscal
 year ends in May, spanning two of TEI's budget years. 


The tasks covered by that budget item include pushing out new releases
 integrating new elements and writing guidelines. Now that TEI is moving away
 from the host model, these tasks need to be distributed. The Council has
 been working to cover the editorial process amongst Council members. LB
 suggests that money for editorial infrastructure should be given to the
 Council to distribute as it sees fit. The Council members could assign tasks
 to particular people inside and outside the Council. This could be done as
 in\-kind work or as individual bids by Council members, partners, or others. 


DO raised the problem of how to set a reasonable prospective budget for
 editorial tasks. One possibility is to give the Council a a flat sum based
 on past allotments (e.g., $20,000 for travel and $18,000 for technical
 work). This, this might be problematic in practice, however. Alternatively,
 the Board might ask the Council to set a budget request. This requires the
 Council to make a best guess of how much travel and editorial work will be
 required. 


SS pointed out that the Board could ask for a one\-page budget estimate from
 the SIGs, the Council, and the Board. For 2012, this would cover meetings,
 activities and services, community involvement grants, database revisions,
 and membership recruitment. JU proposed that we ask for these summaries. JU
 and the new Treasurer would do Board, JC would provide a Council budget, and
 SS would do SIG. The drafts could be pulled together in the next couple of
 weeks and sent to JU by Oct. 31\. The Council will review their budget at
 their upcoming face\-to\-face meeting in Paris Nov. 7\-10 and then resubmit if
 necessary by Nov. 15\. The Board can discuss and vote on them on\-line. 


SD suggested setting priorities first and then assigning X% towards various
 activities. This approach would consider how the Board wants to divide up
 the pie. JU suggested that it is difficult to set things in abstract, so it
 might be best to start with estimates, then looking at them and review past
 trends. The Board can then decide to allocate more or less to important
 tasks. Once we have preliminary numbers, we can post them to the list. JU
 will post them with percentages and Board can debate on\-line. 


MD is confused about not setting priorities before generating numbers. What
 about new things? Translating and upgrading website will be included in
 Board budget.
Contracting for services * We were using KPMG for taxes, but did not renew the contract in 2011\. Richard
 Ruttenberg, an Illinois\-based CPA, was contacted by Martin Mueller in the
 summer of 2011 and asked to provide an estimate for filing the TEI taxes and
 taking on bookkeeping tasks. He gave us an estimate of $1,000 for taxes and
 $3,000 for bookkeeping. Since Virginia is still handling accounting, we
 contracted with him to file our taxes. Assuming that the Treasurer position
 works out as discussed earlier, we will contract with him for bookkeeping in
 2012\. DO suggested that the Treasurer pay attention to how this works out to
 per transaction cost.
Membership Discussion * DO pointed out that the mix of income sources is shifting: less is coming
 from memberships. We could allow people to “pay” yearly membership invoices
 in\-kind, which might be documented by receipts at the end of the year (e.g.,
 covering travel costs to meeting, putting on conference). That might be
 easier for some European institutions than paying cash up\-front for
 membership. However, we would need to exert quality control: if the in\-kind
 effort proves low\-quality or not useful, we would need way to revise the
 agreement.
Host RFP* We need to announce meetings locations for 2012 and 2013, so we need to
 issue an RFP for 2013\. We will maintain our pattern of switching between
 Europe and North America in opposition with the DH conferences,, so 2013
 should be in Europe. 


We need a Board Program Chair and committee to oversee 2012 conference. JU
 suggests that the new Board address that in January. We will also need to
 appoint a Nominations Committee. Traditionally one of the newly elected
 people heads that committee.
Members’ Meeting * There is concern about how to make sure that conference organizers have
 enough money to cover costs. The current arrangement is that we provide up
 to $5200 to conference organizers to cover costs for a conference attended
 by 125 people and they can bill for extra, but any net income returns to
 TEI. SS questioned this formula, since organizers take the risk and TEI
 takes profit. Costs are going up, and organizers might be able to plan
 better with a higher advance guarantee. If local costs are high, it is
 impossible to front the costs of a reasonable quality event. It would be
 easier for hosts to plan for receptions and higher quality breaks if they
 had more control over minimum budget. It also would enable organizers to
 offer TEI members cheaper registration. 


The Board agreed that local host should be able to arrange workshops as they
 wish. Workshops are not part of conference, so the local host can set up and
 charge as needed. 


The ADHO model is for local hosts to take all the risk, set registration
 fees, and keep all profit. ADHO kicks in $5,000 to the conference budget if
 the hosts validate ADHO membership at registration. But, TEI wants to keep
 conference registration fees affordable for attendees. Conference is now
 major activity, DO pointed out, and we should find a way for TEI to earn
 money from them. Alternatives include asking hosts to guarantee a sum or
 percentage from the net profits, or increasing the local host’s budget as
 they bring in more sponsors and attendees. We could also fix the
 registration price and minimum number of attendees in conference bid
 requirements, and include travel costs in calculations (some places are more
 expensive to reach). 


JW suggested increasing the $5200 guarantee to $6500\. (This would be a
 guarantee of up to $6550, not a flat amount). The exception would be for a
 partner proposal (an institution could include conference hosting in a
 partner bid), since in that case the costs would be part of in\-kind work.
Conference RFP for the next two years* Texas A\&M (Laura Mandell) and Saskatoon (Peter Robinson) have expressed
 interest in hosting. JU will invite bids from both, asking about both 2012
 and 2014, and can check in with Montreal for 2014\.
SIG Discussion * The discussion returned to previous concerns over SIGs being perceived as
 exclusive, It might be useful to differentiate between Special Interest
 Group (SIG) grants and Community Involvement Grants (CIG). A CIG might fund
 someone travelling to a small conference to talk about TEI/DH, outreach to a
 group that has never been tapped by TEI, tool development and training. for
 example. We would need to build momentum and a timetable to give people time
 to build ideas, through an RFP with a deadline, perhaps once or twice a
 year. 


JU suggested issuing an RFP twice a year with two amounts, one for SIGs and
 one for CIGs, so as to avoid competition between the two audiences. LB
 pointed out that SIGs are quite interested in community activities and
 promotion, not just suggestions for edits to guidelines, so they could apply
 for both. 


MD suggested encouraging outside and inside projects, not differentiating so
 long as the quality is good. We could put out a single call at the beginning
 of year, so that earlier applicants would have a better chance and access to
 a larger pool of money. 


DO suggested that two RFPs a year would allow a clearer time frames to put a
 proposal together and to organize in advance. The first call would ask for
 budgets between $500\-$1500 and specify a total pool of $4000\. Anything left
 over could be added to the pool for the second round. 


JU proposed two RFPs for Community Initiative Grants, due October 1 and April
 1, with a total budget of $4000 each. We can specify that we seek proposals
 between $500\-$1500, but we will consider others. If we don’t spend all in
 first round, we will announce increased available for second round. The
 proposals can come from individuals or groups that are members of community
 or interested in doing work for community, including SIGs, software
 developers, and technical writers. The RFPs should include bulleted lists of
 things that we want to fund (travel to deliver to new audience,
 documentation, training, translations, etc.). SS will draft RFP and
 circulate to Board, then will post to TEI\-L list. The first call will go out
 on December 1, for the April 1 deadline.
Council Discussion * Licensing:+ There is a proposal from Council to simplify the many licenses used by the TEI
	 and where possible use the same license. After extensive debate the TEI Council
	 proposes to dual\-license most outputs as [BSD 2\-Clause](http://www.opensource.org/licenses/BSD-2-Clause) and 
	 [Creative Commons Attribution](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/) (unported version 3\.0\). 
	 The dual license will allow users to choose to abide by the terms of whichever license
	 
	 they wish or suits their use of the materials (e.g. an ODD could be used as either
	 documentation or as software). 
	 Both licenses, essentially, require some form of attribution, but do not otherwise
	 restrict use of the materials. 
	 The Board was reminded that TEI isn’t bound by the licensing, and we can use another
	 license for someone else. It was deemed undesirable for users to have to keep coming
	 to
	 the Consortium for permissions to alter things. 
	
	
	How to differentiate between what is TEI and what is modified TEI? If
	 we want to retain control beyond attribution, we are raising costs
	 for users of using TEI. JW moved to adopt Council’s recommendations
	 for licensing. Approved.
	Web site translation+ MD noted that TEI needs to reach people who are afraid of computers
	 and XML. XML is already a foreign language for many, and TEI's
	 reliance on English creates another barrier to prospective
	 audiences. The TEI web site should be more welcoming and accessible
	 to both beginners and non English speakers. MD recommended that we
	 have pages for beginners (including students and administration) in
	 English, and provide translations. The home page should be aimed at
	 beginners. The current www.tei\-c.org home and the TEI community seem
	 too closed, too technical, too aimed at skilled users, too English,
	 and timid or confused users quickly leave. But there are actually
	 many opportunities and support resources in the community, which
	 need to be highlighted. 
	
	
	MD suggested having a blog on front page, addressing basic topics,
	 with newsfeed, and a FAQ and newsletter. The TEI Journal should also
	 be more visible. There should be a link for experienced users going
	 to more advanced pages. The first level of the site should be easy
	 to understand, and available in English, French, Spanish, Chinese,
	 German, Italian, etc. 
	
	
	This brought up the problem of getting good translations. JU
	 mentioned a Microsoft widget, community\-curated translations, that
	 provides an initial automatic translation, which can then be
	 corrected and massaged by TEI community members fluent in the
	 language. 
	
	
	There was some discussion about how to handle bookmarking, since we
	 would be juggling multiple copies of a page. How would it be kept
	 up\-to\-date? LB noted that he is working on a French\-language web
	 site with Adonis, aimed at meeting the needs of Adonis in France,
	 that includes pointers to projects, lists of tools, current
	 activities centered on TEI stuff in France. Will include French
	 version of TEI By Example. This might work in some cases, where an
	 entirely separate or associated web site centered around local use
	 could be built. But, would we want federated style of maintaining
	 the web site? 
	
	
	This sort of work would require more coordination than we want to ask
	 of our Webmaster. These are more strategic and editorial tasks, so
	 perhaps it would make sense to appoint a web editor to work with the
	 web master. We could also look for suggestions of new content
	 management tools (no more OpenCMS?) that would allow people to
	 publish from TEI source data. 
	
	
	This sort of task might require an information architect, who could
	 create a multi\-lingual framework that works well on mobiles, has
	 consistent look and feel to protect brand. The goal would be to
	 develop robust framework for an international and friendly presence.
	 The Board could request bids from members and from commercial
	 vendors. 
	
	
	MD will write a few paragraphs on what he thinks the site should do
	 and contain. JU can develop breakdown of tasks that we want bids on
	 and check into Microsoft widget.
	Other+ The Council may wish to nominate a chair and then ask Board to elect
	 that person. It will discuss this at its next meeting, as well as
	 the evolution of the guidelines.
Priorities for the coming year * There was discussion of questions that the Council is addressing, following
 up on JU's survey of Council and Board candidates' priorities (as discussed
 in yesterday Business Meeting). The roadmap to P6 got support from
 candidates, but the Birnbaum doctrine (which decrees that changes in the
 Guideline schemas should not invalidate existing documents) is the Council's
 method for determining when a new P\# is required. The Birnbaum doctrine
 encourages backward compatibility, but allows for that principle to be
 violated if doing so is necessitated by new technologies that have
 substantial benefits. New major versions (e.g., P6\) imply this violation of
 backward compatibility. 


The Board would like the Council to determine where we are right now in that
 scale, and to comment on the implications of a new version. Libraries are less
 than enthusiastic about new versions, particularly if they generate
 migration and backward compatibility problems. A stable version is
 beneficial to users, so would need to address concerns of librarians et al.
 We haven’t been enforcing deprecation conflicts, but rather giving warnings.
 P6 isn’t a good marketing feature for us, so It may make sense to try for a
 version P5\.xx. Some changes may be invisible to end user but still
 necessary. So the question becomes, how long will it be before there are
 compelling reasons to break backwards compatibility and put out a new
 version? 


Other issues that had come up on candidates' priority list were: building a TEI
 repository, encouraging the development of 3rd party tools, and more on\-ramp
 services for beginners. It makes sense to spend our resources on activities
 that other groups are not doing (e.g., the TAPAS project's work building a
 repository and training, DARIAH's intent to offer TEI training in Europe).
 TEI can promote those external efforts and encouraging people to take
 advantage of them. It might also be helpful to match users with local
 technical help and instruction and/or to build a network of mentors or
 regional contact people. Outreach and marketing to raise TEI's public
 profile and advertise the brand would be useful, so that people want to
 learn more about it. E.g., perhaps we should have a brochure to distribute
 at conferences, so people will be encouraged to learn how to use TEI. 


It might be helpful to collaborate with other digital humanities centers
 (such as centerNet). For example, we might arrange for TEI experts to offer
 a free half\-day of consulting to would\-be TEI users as in\-kind effort in
 return for individual TEI subscriptions. Similarly, DH Answers service could
 be a tool for offering basic TEI guidance or helping interested users find
 local support and workshops. 


MD suggested:submitting the TEI Journal to the OpenEdition Freemium
 distribution service. Libraries subscribe to Freemium list, and receive a
 bundle of 100 journals.TEI could provide free and full access to TEI Journal
 and Guidelines, and TEI subscribers and members would get access. JU
 proposed that Board agree to have TEI Journal and guidelines included in the
 Freemium bundle for distribution under their regular terms. And, TEI members
 and subscribers would be given access to TEI Journal and guidelines. MD will
 investigate the nitty gritty for including guidelines. This was accepted by
 the Board.
Final thanks* The Board noted with thanks the service of retiring Board members.




