---
layout: page.njk
title: "TEI Board Conference Call: 14 July 2009"
---
# TEI Board Conference Call: 14 July 2009
Chris Ruotolo



Certification of the meeting
* + The meeting was certified at \~14:05 UTC, with the following members present:
	Lou Burnard (LB), Julia Flanders (JF), Daniel O'Donnell (DO), Daniel Pitti
	(DP), Laurent Romary (LR), Chris Ruotolo (CR), and Christian Wittern
	(CW).


Approval of minutes
* + The minutes were approved.


Chair's Report
* + The Board reviewed the [Chair's Report](/Board/bm34a.xml#chair).
		- The Tite\-Mellon RFP generated twelve bids, which have been
		narrowed to a short list of four vendors, selected based on
		management expertise and pricing. Sample texts will be sent to these
		vendors soon. The quality of bids is surprisingly high.
		- The Education SIG's publication plan raised some red flags,
		because the editors were not planning to develop the content in TEI.
		The editors are now reconsidering, and LR
		and James Cummings are consulting on the project. An interesting
		discussion of CMS systems for journal publication is taking place on
		TEI\-L.
		- The shopping cart project is running 4\-5 weeks behind. It has been
		difficult to get information about merchant accounts from Bank of
		America. Conference registration needs to open soon, so DO is
		hoping to have an update by the end of the week.


Conference Planning Report
* + Accepted speakers and poster presenters have been notified. One parallel session
	has been reserved for late breaking work. The call for workshops led to three
	proposals and two eventual withdrawals; the remaining proposal is from the University
	of Chicago and involves Philologic. There will also be a multi\-day workshop
	by the Ontology SIG prior to the conference. Sponsorship activity is running a little
	behind. SyncroSoft will provide conference bags, and one other vendor is currently
	on board. Other vendors will be contacted soon. The Board will meet after the conference
	as usual. Board members are asked not to book their return flights on the afternoon of the
	Board meeting.


Membership Report
* + Receipts to date this year are slightly ahead of last year. The TEI has
	collected about $75,000 in membership dues and $900 in subscriber dues so
	far. However, Columbia and NYU have both resigned as Level 1 members, and
	additional resignations are likely given the grim budget situation at many
	institutions. The TEI finances are in fairly good shape for this year, but
	next year's budget will be tight if the resignations continue, and we'll
	want to plan our projected budget with that in mind. The Board should focus
	on the positive money\-saving benefits of using TEI and the advantages of
	membership. The Board should also look at all opportunities for saving
	money, including possible temporary reductions in host services and reduced
	travel for meetings. Contingency planning should take place now.


Council Report
* + LR reported that the Council is producing good results. Feature requests are
	being pushed to SourceForge, and even non\-members of the Council are getting
	into the habit of using SF. Several SIGs have been very active recently. The
	Council plays a double role of maintaning the Guidelines and acting as
	"think tank".JF asked if the Council has been working on outreach and documentation
	activities. LB mentioned that Council has been working on an introductory
	guide, due to be completed in October (although work on the project has
	slowed recently). Outreach activities have always been successful in
	generating interest in the TEI; the Board should think about how to convert
	that interest into new memberships and subscriberships.


Web Report
* + CR had little to report. Migrating the Vault/Archive remains the top priority
	for the web committe, along with exploring a CMS solution for the Education
	SIG's TEI\-J project.


Nominations Report
* + The Board reviewed the [Nominations
	Report](/Board/bm34a.xml##nominations).


SIGs Report
* + A new Publications SIG has just been formed, and the Education SIG is
	tackling its TEI\-J journal project. The Manuscript SIG and Ontology SIG have
	also both active recently.


Host RFPs and related issues
* + 2009 is a host renewal point Brown, Oxford, Nancy and Virginia. Board
	procedures dictate that a request for proposals be issued and released for
	open bidding. DO asked John Unsworth for some background information about
	this. In the past, the process has been informal and has worked well. In
	light of the budget situation this year, we should extend the existing
	hosting arrangements for another year, with the understanding that we will
	discuss host relationships in the coming year. DO will write to the current
	host reps to see if they are willing to renew for another year.The Board discussed whether and how the host representative position vacated
	by Sebastian Rahtz should be filled. Oxford and Lethbridge currently lack
	host representatives on the Board. CR questioned whether it makes sense to
	consider Lethbridge a host. DO agreed to have Lethbridge be the
	unrepresented host; he also argued that there are too many appointed
	positions on the Board, and that we need to rexamine the balance of elected
	and appointed positions. The Board agreed to have a serious discussion about
	the role of hosts at the Board meeting in Ann Arbor, with email discussion
	to frame the issues in advance of the meeting. The Board will form a
	committee to guide the discussion. DO will ask the two absent Board members
	if they're willing to lead the committee; JF may also be willing to
	serve.
	LB noted that the Nominations Committee has had trouble finding sufficient
	candidates to run for the Board, and suggested that the vacancy be filled
	with an appointee who might provide new perspective and assist with the
	Board's self\-examination. LB was tasked with leading discussion over email
	to identify possible appointees.


Per diem discussion
* + The Board endorsed moving to a per diem system for travel reimbursements. DO
	will repost DP's proposed per diem system to the Board mailing list for
	discussion.


2009 election slate
* Although the slates for the upcoming election are small relative to the
number of vacancies, the Board agreed that they are adequate, and preferable
to padding the slates with nominees who are very unlikely to be elected.
Currently, the Council fills four and six slots in alternating years; it
would be better to fill five slots each year. To balance the vacancies, the
Council could consider appointing someone to a special one\-year term for
2009\-2010, perhaps to work on a special project. DO will ask LR if this
would be possible.


Â 