---
layout: page.njk
title: "TEI Board Conference Call: 6 June 2011"
---
# TEI Board Conference Call: 6 June 2011









Sarah Wells


Certification of the meeting* The meeting was certified at \~13:00 UTC, with the following members present:
 Lou Burnard (LB), Marin Dacos (MD), Wayne Graham (WG), Martin Mueller (MM), Daniel
 O'Donnell (DO), 
 Laurent Romary (LR), Susan Schreibman (SS), John Walsh (JW), Sarah
 Wells (SW), and Martin Wynne (MW).
Next Treasurer* SW will be resigning as Treasurer, once a replacement has been selected and trained.
 MM is in discussions with
 a possible replacement.
Membership processing* New membership requests are currently being sent to Julia Flanders, who then passes
 them on to SW for
 processing. This is not ideal, since Flanders is no longer on the Board. In the most
 recent 
 business meeting in Zadar, the Board agreed to split membership duties out into two
 functions: the Treasurer 
 sends out invoices and receives payments, and the Membership Secretary works on recruiting
 and correspondence. 
 However, a new Membership Secretary has not yet been appointed, so in the meantime,
 the Treasurer can handle 
 membership correspondence. The Board agreed that membership requests should therefore
 be redirected to the Treasurer, until the position is filled.
Empty positions* At the most recent Council meeting in Chicago, there was a discussion about the relationship
 of the SIG 
 Coordinator position to the Council. SS feels strongly that the SIG Coordinator, while
 connected to the Council, should also be a Board 
 member or at least participate in Board discussions. The SIGs are directed by the
 Council, but the SIG Coordinator is most 
 effective when he or she can interact with the Board. DO suggested that it could be
 an ex offico position. A 
 possible candidate was discussed at the most recently Council meeting and 
 the Board supported the suggested name, so MM will discuss it with the candidate.
 


SW has been doubling as Secretary and Treasurer, and asked that the Secretary position
 be filled. MM wondered why 
 the Board needs both a Membership Secretary and Secretary. LB agreed, pointing out
 that membership recruitment 
 should be the responsibility of the entire Board. DO noted, though, that the Secretary
 is the second\-in\-command after the 
 Chair, and that it does make sense for one person to be responsible for coordinating
 outreach activities. The
 Board agreed that one person could handle both tasks but that for the moment it will
 be remain as two positions. 


MM will send a notice to Board list describing the responsibilities of the open positions
 and asking for volunteers and 
 nominations.
Controlling costs* Controlling costs is a major concern, particularly as income from members and subscribers
 continues to shrink. 
 SS noted that the Board needs to be careful about commiting to travel expenses for
 meetings. 
 The Chair, Treasurer, and Council Chair must attend the annual Board business meeting,
 but what of travel 
 costs for other positions? If the 
 SIG Coordinator does indeed participate in Board meetings and a new Membership Secretary
 is appointed, should 
 the travel costs for those two be covered? It would be helpful to find a way to share
 those expenses with Board members' 
 home institutions.
Second Council meeting* LR requested funding for a second Council meeting, probably in Paris later this year.
 While the Council has been 
 meeting only once a year for the past few years, it is proving increasingly difficult
 to accomplish all of the Council's necessary 
 business and to discuss fully the issues at hand. LB supported the idea of a second
 meeting. However, SW noted that the Council 
 meetings tend to cost between $10,000\-12,000, and the proposed 2011 budget does not
 support that extra cost. LR and LB felt that 
 this is a necessary expense, since face\-to\-face discussion is vital to the Council's
 ability to function and make informed decisions. 
 Part of this proposed meeting will be devoted to folding linguistic issues in and
 get P5 forward, perhaps through an NEH grant. 
 The Board agreed that a second meeting would be good, but asked LR and LB to submit
 a rough budget and outline for a second meeting. 
 There would be no commitment on the Board's part to financing two meetings each year.




