---
layout: page.njk
title: "TEI Board Conference Call: 12 October 2006"
---
# TEI Board Conference Call: 12 October 2006



 
 


 Chris Ruotolo
 
 The meeting commenced shortly after 1500 UTC, with the following in attendance:
 
  
 
 * Syd Bauman (SB)
* Lou Burnard (LB)
* Julia Flanders (JF)
* John Lavagnino (JL)
* Veronika Lux (VL)
* Daniel O'Donnell (DO)
* Daniel Pitti (DP)
* Sebastian Rahtz (SR)
* Chris Ruotolo (CR)
* John Unsworth (JU)
* Matt Zimmerman (MZ)


1\. Review of action items from last conference call
* + 1\.1\. TEI Tite
		- * JU reported that Perry Trolard, a grad student at UIUC, is working on a project to
			 combine the tagsets and schemas at UC, Michigan, Virginia, and one other
			 institution. He will propose a union set of those practices, express it in ODD, and
			 submit it to the DLF for approval. Perry will be at the DLF meeting in Boston on Nov.
			 8\-10, with UIUC and DLF splitting the cost.
			 
			  
			 
			 The Board discussed the relationship of the DLF working group to the TEI, and
			 decided that the results of this work should go to Christian Wittern, as well as the
			 DLF group. JU will manage this.1\.2\. TEI website
		- * CR reported that David Sewell is currently revising content for the new website.
			 Setting up the backend with OpenCMS has been slow going and is holding up the
			 project. DP and JU will arrange to get Shayne Brandon and Amit Kumar together to
			 focus on this project for a week and get it done, as soon as possible. The Board
			 reiterated the urgent need for a new site, and discussed the possibility of adding
			 revised content to the old site before the new backend is complete. Frequent
			 downtime on the current site is a major concern; memory upgrades on the IATH server
			 may
			 help with this.1\.3\. Role of Executive Director
		- * MZ, JF, and VL have discussed this via email and will continue the discussion
			 offline.1\.4\. Role of Secretary
		- * MZ and CR reviewed the secretary language in the bylaws and decided that we are in
			 compliance.1\.5\. Funding foundations
		- * To be discussed at the upcoming Board meeting.1\.6\. Donations and CaféPress
		- * No action yet.1\.7\. Update on Members' Meeting
		- * JF sent the update to the Board mailing list.1\.8\. Nominations committee
		- * The nominations procedures will be discussed at the upcoming Board meeting. The
			 Board must decide whether or not to include everyone who is nominated or
			 self\-nominated on the ballot. JL will research the ideal number of candidates
			 relative to the number of slots, and he, DO, and JF will discuss this issue, along
			 with the problem of candidates being nominated repeatedly but not elected, after the
			 Members' Meeting.1\.9\. "P5\-ready" logo
		- * MZ has asked James Cummings to recommend a "P5\-ready" logo, and he may have
			 something ready to show by the Members' Meeting. MZ will contact him again.1\.10\. Recruiting plan
		- * To be discussed at the upcoming Board meeting.1\.11\. Individual memberships
		- To be discussed at the upcoming Board meeting.


2\. Update on MM
* + JF reported that the response from sponsors was very good, and we now have all the
	 support we sought for coffee breaks, receptions,etc. The conference bag will contain
	 promo from these sponsors. Ray Siemens and Karin Armstrong have done a wonderful job
	 organizing, and planning for the meeting is on track. A few late poster sessions have
	 been added to the program. Hotel registrations are still lagging, and we will pay
	 about
	 $700 more for the venue if we don't fill our projected number of rooms.
	 
	  
	 
	 VL will not attend the meeting; Gautier Poupeau will attend the Board meeting in her
	 place.


3\. Reminder about host reports and financial reports
* + MZ reminded the Board that host reports and financial reports will need to be ready
	 by
	 the Board meeting. Host reports should be sent to CR; financial reports go to DP.
	 DP
	 will contact the accountant to ensure that the necessary tax forms have been received.
	 Reports will be distributed on the website, not in paper form; handouts at the meeting
	 will include the URLs for the reports.
	 
	  
	 
	 Christian Wittern has inquired about how much money is left in the Council's
	 budget. DP thinks there is approximately $6000 left, with two reimbursements (roughly
	 $1000 each) outstanding.


4\. New Chair
* + MZ will be leaving the Board at the end of the year, so a new Chair must be appointed.
	 SR and DO have both expressed interest in serving. Once they both check with their
	 institutions and confirm their ability to serve, the Board will appoint the new chair
	 via e\-mail, hopefully before the Members' Meeting.


5\. 2007 Members' Meeting
* + Oxford may be willing to submit a new bid for hosting the 2007 MM, if all the other
	 bids are deemed unfeasible. The Board discussed the financial implications of holding
	 the meeting in Taiwan or New Zealand, and decided to take a quick email poll of the
	 TEI
	 community to gauge their feelings about the various potential locations for the MM.
	 JF
	 will draft the email survey, which will go out to TEI\-L and the membership list. The
	 Board will decide on the 2007 MM location at the meeting in Victoria.


6\. Draft agenda for Victoria Board meeting
* MZ asked the Board to look over the [agenda](https://www.tei-c.org/board/agenda-for-the-tei-c-board-meeting-victoria-b-c-canada-29-october-2006/) for the
 upcoming Board meeting and post any suggested changes to the Board mailing list.


 The meeting adjourned at approximately 1600 UTC.
 
  
