---
layout: page.njk
title: "TEI Board Meeting, Chicago, 11 October 2002: Minutes"
---
# TEI Board Meeting, Chicago, 11 October 2002: Minutes



 
 


 TEI\-C Board of Directors meeting, 11 Oct 2002Minutes v1\.0Meeting held at the Claridge
 Hotel, ChicagoLou Burnard
 
 
 Voting members of the Board present:
 Julia Flanders; Claus Huitfeldt; Sebastian
 Rahtz; Peter Robinson; Harold Short; John Unsworth, Chair. Also
 present: Syd Bauman, Editor; Lou Burnard, Editor; Alois Pichler,
 Executive Director; Jan Hajic, outgoing Board member.
 
  
 
 Apologies had been received from David Chesnutt, Geoffrey Rockwell,
 and Antonio Zampolli.
 
  
 
 
  
 
 Appointment of officers
* + Geoffrey Rockwell was proposed
	 as Secretary, and appointed nem
	 con. Harold Short was proposed as Vice chair and appointed nem con.


Agenda
* + The previously circulated [agenda](https://www.tei-c.org/board/tei-board-meeting-12-oct-02-draft-agenda/) was approved.


Minutes
* + The [minutes
	 of the last meeting](https://www.tei-c.org/board/minutes-ofthe-tei-c-board-meeting-may-9-10-2002/) were reviewed and approved, subject to the
	 following correction: costs anticipated per speaker at the
	 Members meeting should be $400, not $1500\.


Attendance
* + Apologies had been received from David Chesnutt and Antonio
	 Zampolli, both of whom had been unable to attend through continued ill
	 health. The Chair expressed sympathy and thanks for their service
	 on behalf of the Board. Thanks were also expressed to the
	 outgoing ACL representative, Jan Hajic, and a welcome expressed
	 to newly
	 elected members (Greg
	 Crane, Bill Kretzschmar, and Geoffrey Rockwell). It was noted that participation in
	 Board Meetings was determined by the Bylaws. 
	JU
	 15 octChair to thank
	 all board and council candidates for election; to convey sympathy
	 to AZ and DC; to update Board email list appropriately.AP
	 15 OctExecutive
	 Director to notify all elected
	 members of their success
	 
	  
	 
	 The Board reviewed the bylaws relating to the date at which newly
	 elected members should take office. A change could be made with the
	 support of either a majority of members or the board. The Board
	 considered alternative strategies such as holding elections by
	 mail before hand, or delaying appointment of new members to the
	 January following their election. It was proposed, and agreed
	 nem con, that the simplest solution would be to remove the
	 sentence Elections will take effect immediately in
	 article 4 of the Bylaws, replacing it with the sentence Terms
	 of office begin at the following January 1st. and the change
	 duly performed. The incoming
	 Executive Director identified a need for a document detailing
	 these and other formal TEI procedures and agreed to work on
	 one. AP
	 1 Nov
	 Executive Director to progress document on TEI procedures.


Members Meeting
* + Peter Robinson summarized the feedback gathered from
	 participants in the previous day's Members Meeting, all of which
	 had been very positive. 40 responses had been received; a clear
	 preference (24:11\) had been expressed for a longer (1\.5 day)
	 meeting, with lunch supplied (16:7\). As regards the programme,
	 there had been a clear preference for the keynotes and the more
	 technical reports above the more formal organizational reports,
	 which (it was suggested) might more usefully be placed online or
	 tabled in paper form. Some members said they had found the venue
	 uncomfortable, and complained that there had been insufficient
	 time for discussion, and that the needs of non\-English\-speaking
	 members had been neglected. The Board expressed thanks and
	 congratulations to the Programme Committee; agreed that an annual
	 report should be prepared before the meeting; and that chairs
	 should take care to enforce proper behaviour on the part of
	 speakers.
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 Two proposals had been received to host the next meeting, in France
	 and in Bulgaria. The Board resolved that the proposal to host the
	 annual members meeting in Nancy, submitted by Laurent Romary
	 should be accepted; and that Matthew Driscoll should be
	 requested to co\-ordinate organization of a Summer Symposium in
	 Bulgaria.
	 JU
	 15 OctChair to
	 request Romary and Driscoll to progress their respective
	 offers.
	 
	  
	 
	 It was agreed that Peter Robinson, Syd Bauman, and
	 Laurent Romary should act as Programme Committee for the Members
	 Meeting, 2003; and that Bill Kretschmar, Susan Schreibman and
	 Alejandro Bia be invited to form the Nominating Committee for
	 Members Elections 2003\. Guidance should be provided to them on
	 the need to ensure proper diversity in the candidates
	 selected. AP
	 20
	 OctExecutive Director to progress.


Financial report
* + The Hon Treasurer reviewed the [Financial Report for 2002](https://www.tei-c.org/Vault/MembersMeetings/2002-info/Finance-2002-a.pdf). In
	 discussion, the Board noted that there were travel claims still
	 outstanding from the TEI Council meeting in January, which could
	 not be continued indefinitely. Work carried out under the NEH
	 work should also be billed and reported without delay. LB
	 1 NovOxford had still to invoice
	 the consortium for an estimated $20K due in 2002\.AP
	 1 NovExecutive Director
	 to remind all potential claimants of deadline for submitting
	 claims. It was also agreed that, in allocating limited
	 funds, preference should be given to work group activities above
	 Council, and to the Council above the Board. However, no costs for
	 workgroup or council travel were anticipated in the current year;
	 any surplus should be allocated to professional production of
	 recruiting material. It was agreed to set up a subcommittee of
	 the Board to produce effective marketing literature, comprising
	 the Chair, the Executive Director, Julia Flanders and Lou
	 Burnard. JMU
	 n.d.To progress
	 design and production of recruiting literature with subgroup,
	 funds permitting.
	 
	  
	 
	 The Board then reviewed the [PreliminaryBudget for 2003](https://www.tei-c.org/Vault/MembersMeetings/2002-info/Budget-2003.pdf). There was some discussion as to
	 whether the Certification program (included as cost neutral in
	 the budget) should be included, since the Training Subgroup had
	 recommended against using Training as a source of income. It was
	 suggested that some proportion of the gate from any official TEI
	 courses (for example those provided in response to the TEI RFP)
	 ought to be donated to the TEI. It was also suggested that a
	 modest entrance fee (e.g. $50\) should be charged for next
	 year's members meeting.
	 
	  
	 
	 The underspend on the NEH grant allocated for 2002 did not yet
	 feature in the 2003 Budget, although it was intended to roll it
	 over. JU
	 1
	 DecChair to provide full NEH acccounting for 2002 to
	 Bergen.AP
	 14
	 DecExecutive Director to provide revised TEI Budget for
	 2003\.
	 
	  
	 
	 Since NEH funding could not justifiably be spent on Board or Council meeting
	 expenses, it was resolved to cancel the next Board face\-to\-face
	 meeting, and to move the provisionally\-planned next meeting of
	 the Council to May. No further TEI workgroups would be chartered
	 until the funding position improved. The Board would next meet
	 at the Members Meeting in 2003\. The Council would hold a
	 telephone conference call at a date to be determined within the
	 next two months.JU
	 15
	 OctChair to organize Council conference call.


Funding Opportunities
* + Several potential sources of funding had been identified during the
	 Members Meeting. The EU might be approached for support of the 2003
	 members meeting, as might the IMLS. The European
	 Science Foundation seemed to offer possibilities, as did the EU
	 6th Framework programme. Soros and similar foundations
	 should be approached for the Bulgarian training meeting. Funding
	 approaches should not need to wait until the draft for P5 was available,
	 (provisionally next spring); FP6 for example needed urgent attention.
	 HS
	 March/May 03Harold
	 Short to report on ESF funding possibilities.AP
	 March/May
	 03Executive Director, in combination with HS and LB, to report on EU funding possibilities.LR
	 March/May 03Laurent Romary
	 to seek funding in support of 2003 Members Meeting.MD
	 March/May 03Matthew Driscoll
	 to seek funding in support of 2003 Training Workship.JF
	 March/May 03Julia Flanders
	 to pursue funding possibilities from NEH for library training
	 witrh Nancy Kushigian.LB
	 1 NovLou Burnard to
	 pass on German contact for corpus development project to Claus Huitfeldt,
	 who had an outstanding action to seek German funding
	 sources.


Chairman's Report
* + The Migration group had started work, and would be meeting tomorrow.
	 
	  
	 
	 The suggestion for formation of SIGs having been very positively
	 received, the Board discussed some implementation issues. It was
	 agreed that some kind of protocol should be agreed: e.g. their
	 relationship with the council;, the requirement that their
	 members should be Consortium members, that they should be
	 formed by individual members. JU/HS/PR
	 Mid NovThe Chair agreed to
	 produce a draft protocol for the formation and activities of
	 TEI Special Interest Groups for discussion, in collaboration with
	 Peter Robinson and Harold Short.
	 
	  
	 
	 An ADHOC committee had recently been
	 formed to review questions about better co\-operation between
	 the TEI, NINCH, ACH, ALLC and STS. Topics discussed included: a
	 single publicn of record (probably
	 LLC); cross\-organization membership fees; a standard protocol for panel proposals;
	 a consistent policy on internationalization (I18N)
	 issues; an electronic publication; a framework for regional
	 chapters. Julia Flanders is the TEI representative, and the next
	 meeting is at the end of May 2003\.


AOB
* CH proposed setting up a Board subcommittee to address
 problems of I18N as they affected the TEI in particular. CH
 14 Feb 03Claus
 Huitfeldt to draft a charter for such a group, with assistance
 from Alejandro Bia and Laurent Romary.
 
  
 
 Claus Huitfeldt announced that he was stepping down as head of
 Acsis at Bergen; the Board so noted, and expressed the hope
 that Bergen would share their desire to see him continue as
 Bergen representative on the Board.
 
  
 
 Jan Hajic, attending his last meeting, was formally thanked for
 his contribution by the Board.
 
  
 
 The meeting adjourned at 1800 hours for dinner.


  
