---
layout: page.njk
title: "TEI Board Meeting - Thursday, October 18th, 2018"
---
# TEI Board Meeting - Thursday, October 18th, 2018
via Zoom


Agenda
======


* Meeting Procedures and Other Announcements
	+ Approve minutes of September meeting(s)
		- Board Meeting
		- MM : not prepared yet (action item for **GV)**
* Bringing new people onto Board list\-\-Kathryn
* Preparing for departure of 2018 Board members\-\-Kathryn
	+ Michelle's information to pass along
	+ Wild Apricot training?
* Request received in Tokyo\-\-Georg / Kathryn
	+ Marcus Bingenheimer requests $1500 to update Chinese Guidelines
* Preparing for 2019 Conference and Members Meeting\-\-Georg / Martina
	+ to follow [https://sites.google.com/site/teiconferenceplanning/conference\-protocol\-of\-the\-tei\-consortium?pli\=1](https://sites.google.com/site/teiconferenceplanning/conference-protocol-of-the-tei-consortium?pli=1) ?
* Issuing Call for Hosts for 2020\-\-Kathryn
* Some clarifications
	+ Terms for all TEI\-C positions
		- Luis's new term as webmaster through what date
		- Terms of Journal roles
	+ Status of website migration
		- Kevin's part done, next phase?
* New Business
* Any Other Business


 
**Attendees**: Luis Meneses, Kathryn Tomasek, Kiyonori Nagasaki, Martina Scholger, Hugh Cayless, Michelle Dalmau, Laurent Romary


 


**Regret**: Georg Vogeler


Action Points
=============


**All**: Approve minutes from [Board Meeting](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1C8jBHrQZ0LZCRyyyWmrCG1PDGCK1dLJZNoNhAYAI-E4/edit) September
**GV**: prepare minutes from [MM](https://docs.google.com/document/d/171Pd35bcy_13-4JOGRDgxTvJ1EvEv7WfDKoeLiInd8o/edit)


**KT**: start process to add new board members to list; start email discussion on procedure to appoint Program Chair; KT to start discussion via email on terms clarifications


**MD:** to contact SyncroSoft for generic TEI login


**LR:** to organize a training session on WA via Zoom


**GV/KT**: set up call for hosts of TEI\-MM 2020 and 2021 (as assigned in september meeting)


Broad Forward
-------------


* TEI\-C infrastructure on next Agenda
* Free membership for one year by workshop participation also on next Agenda
* Internationalization and procedures for requesting/granting funding for December agenda


Minutes
=======


* Meeting Procedures and Other Announcements
	+ Approve minutes of September meeting(s)
		- Board Meeting\-\-
			* September minutes approved by Friday over email
		- MM : not prepared yet (action item for **GV)**
* Bringing new people onto Board list\-\-Kathryn
	+ Council brings new people on to list soon after elections
	+ MD recalls that board has had a mixed practice
	+ MD \& LR would support adding new people to the board list before terms start
	+ KT will be in touch with incoming board members and let them know about the email list and ask Luis to add them
* Preparing for departure of 2018 Board members\-\-Kathryn
	+ Michelle's information to pass along
		- TEI\-C Google login
			* MD no longer has this information.  Luis reset the login and will need to share with the right people.
		- SyncroSoft Oxygen License Generation
			* MD will contact SyncroSoft and cc: Kathryn; Need to get a generic TEI login
		- Keepass for storing TEI\-C passwords: https://keepass.info
			* Where do we put the files?
			* Google Drive, but security concerns
			* Send keepass over email
				+ Short term solution until we determine the stability of our technical infrastructure
			* Send file over USB drives
			* Keepass password to be shared in\-person or via text messaging
		- Best to store password database in a private server, but we also have had problems with the ADHO\-hosted environment
			* LR suggested partnering with DARIAH or CLARIN for stable hosting (DARIAH, ac well as CLARIN  IT infrastructure managed by academic institutions instead of a 3rd party hosting service)
			* TEI\-C infrastructure will be topic of November meeting
		- Wild Apricot training?
			* Laurent to impart WA training. KT is willing to learn for 2019\.
			* LR happy to wait to organize a training session via Zoom Video Sharing in January with the new Membership Secretary. Good to have a secretary present to record the training steps and protocols.
			* At least two people on the Board who understand WA.
			* MD attempted to clarify the Free, one year Workshop Information on the wiki in order to update the TEI\-C web site: [https://wiki.tei\-c.org/index.php/TEI\-C\_Free\_One\_Year\_Workshop\_Memberships](https://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/TEI-C_Free_One_Year_Workshop_Memberships)
			* Hugh speaks to number of “contacts” we are allowed ; limited to 500 “contacts” so free memberships would impact the level of service we are currently paying for.
				+ John Unsworth clarified this in an email sent 2018\-10\-24\.  We can get around upgrading our Wild Apricot membership by archiving inactive members.
			* Important question\-\-implications for website redesign, etc.
			* The issue is how we market the TEI\-\-what benefits does the membership
* Request received in Tokyo\-\-Georg / Kathryn:
Marcus Bingenheimer requests $1500 to update Chinese Guidelines
	+ KT will circulate email request
	+ Will do most of the work himself (unpaid), but would like to pay his collaborator
	+ KT supports the proposal
	+ MS: Has a general question about internationalization? Council needs resources for integrating the translations.
		- Spanish translations are ongoing
		- Japanese translations are ongoing
			* KN would like to pay students who are doing the translation work
		- Updating German translations
		- Others in the community are working on translations without compensation.
	+ HC: One\-off, small compensation for all is manageable for now, but if this continues, we would need to think more strategically about this.
	+ LR: Consider a strategic approach to internationalization
	+ Consider issuing a call for funding internationalization
	+ Will need to table Marcus’ request until we have a strategy in place for handling internationalization
	+ Internationalization for December agenda.
* Preparing for 2019 Conference and Members Meeting\-\-Georg / Martina
	+ to follow [https://sites.google.com/site/teiconferenceplanning/conference\-protocol\-of\-the\-tei\-consortium?pli\=1](https://sites.google.com/site/teiconferenceplanning/conference-protocol-of-the-tei-consortium?pli=1) ?
	+ What is the procedure for appointing a Program Chair?
		- Past years, a board member has been affiliated with the hosting institution so they have served as Program Chair
		- For Tokyo, Kiyonori was planning two conferences so we decided to invite prospective program chairs to submit a letter of interest to help Kiyonori manage the work
		- Some have felt, like Martin Mueller, that the local host should decide.
		- We have a varied practice. To be discussed further over email.
* Issuing Call for Hosts for 2020\-\-Kathryn
	+ External Call for Host protocols: <https://textencodinginitiativeconsortium.wildapricot.org/hosting/>
	+ Internal Call for Host protocols: [https://wiki.tei\-c.org/index.php/Conference\_Protocols\_for\_the\_TEI\-C](https://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/Conference_Protocols_for_the_TEI-C)
* Some clarifications\-\-To be handled over email
	+ Terms for all TEI\-C positions
		- Luis's new term as webmaster through what date?
		- Terms of Journal roles?
	+ Status of website migration
		- Kevin's part done, next phase?
* New Business
* Any Other Business


 