---
layout: page.njk
title: "TEI: TEI-C Board Meeting 2018-09-11"
---
# TEI: TEI-C Board Meeting 2018-09-11
Meeting in person, Tokyo


 


**Attendees:** Kathryn Tomasek (KG), Michelle Dalmau (MD), Georg Vogeler (GV), Martina Scholger (MS), Luis Menes (LM), Laurent Romary (LR), Kyonori Nagasaki (KN) partially


**Excused**: Hugh Cayless (HC)


Agenda
======


* Meeting Procedures and Other Announcements
	+ Approve minutes of August meeting
* Conference and Members' Meeting
	+ Renewed request for slides for business meeting on Wednesday
	+ Are corrections needed to slide deck?
* Updates
	+ Letter of support was circulated to Board/Council list and sent to Marjorie Burghart for her DARIAH proposal.
	+ Website\-\-Luis
	+ Other old business?
* Planning Board Activities for the Final Quarter of 2018
	+ call for hosting of TEI2020 and TEI2021
		- Opportunity for joint meeting with TPDL in Europe\-\-Laurent
	+ Membership
		- Status of membership drive
		- Institutional memberships
	+ Annual Report
		- Formal document to include
		- When to prepare
		- When to distribute
		- How to distribute
	+ Strategic Planning
		- Where do we want the TEI to be in five years? Ten years?
	+ Grants
		- Past practices?
		- TEI Access as referenced on website
* Any other business


 
Action Items
============


* **KT, GV to prepare the call for conference hosting 2020 and 2021**
* LM to organise membership drive switch on/off and revision of slogans


* HC to consult with Virtual on changing fiscal year to Sept\-Aug


* KT/MS to draft annual report with aid of volunteers


* **HC/Virtual to evaluate financial situation / budget space for new activities**
* **KT to check with John on TEI Access\-program**


Minutes
=======


Meeting Procedures and Other Announcements
------------------------------------------


* Approve [minutes of August meeting](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1wTIgKcCBQpaDBxAom0KIwPMjrVlVkXbSIPFqpKe1xxQ/edit): approved


Conference and Members' Meeting
-------------------------------


* Renewed request for slides for business meeting on Wednesday
* Are corrections needed to slide deck?
	+ [https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1eh\-25lZqBcxkhpTgY1RVka4zE2eGjPGa9kySjMijdS0/edit](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1eh-25lZqBcxkhpTgY1RVka4zE2eGjPGa9kySjMijdS0/edit#slide=id.p19)


Updates
-------


* Voting:
	+ current status:
		- individual members: 62 votes, 59 still awaiting
		- institutional: 27 votes, 9 still awaiting
* **KT has sent a reminder email to TEI\-L and MD to the Members via Wild Apricot**
* 
* jTEI
	+ assistant in LeMans funded by by TEI\-C is hired
* Letter of support for Marjorie Burghart’s DARIAH proposal was circulated to Board/Council list and sent to Marjorie.
	+ Thank you, Martina!
	+ Martina and Kathryn have received copies of the submission. Copies upon request; Letter is stored in Google\-Drive.
* Website\-\-Luis
	+ Move to Wordpress is finished. The new site is much easier to use
	+ Follow\-up on aftermath of ADHO server fail: see evaluation of the situation below


Planning Board Activities for the Final Quarter of 2018
-------------------------------------------------------


### TEI2020/TEI2021


* + Opportunity for joint meeting with TPDL in Europe
		- Stable attendance 200\-400
		- strong in the library community
		- maybe in 2021, decision to include organisers of the TEI2021
	+ 2020/2021: Open Call
		- 2020: The Americas
		- 2021: Europe
	+ protocol: [https://wiki.tei\-c.org/index.php/Conference\_Protocols\_for\_the\_TEI\-C\_Conference\_and\_Members%27\_Meeting](https://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/Conference_Protocols_for_the_TEI-C_Conference_and_Members%27_Meeting)
	+ Timeline:
		- Call soon (before Sept. 25th)
		- Repeat
		- Deadline for submissions: March 1st, 2019


 
* **KT, GV to prepare the call**


 
### Membership


* + Status of membership drive
		- Dates for periodic use of banner
			* favorite seasons: end of year (Nov\-Dec), in time before conference (July\-Aug)
			* take it down Sept 20th
		- Call for Slogans in March (2019\)


 
* **LM to organise this (in cooperation with membership coordinator)**


 
* 
* Institutional memberships
	+ be aware of sending out renewal reminder in time (before end of the year)


### Composition of Annual Report


* + Move fiscal reporting time to Sept\-Aug (to accord with conference)?
		- Impact on taxes?
* **HC to consult with Virtual**
* + 
	+ Formal document to include
		- Letter(s) from chair(s) of Board and Technical Council
			* strategy / address future plans
			* appendix with MM minutes and financial report, Council f2f meetings
			* Report on TEI2018
			* Change in personal (leaving and new)
* **When to prepare / When to distribute: by October / November**
* 
* How to distribute: TEI\-L, Members, Website\-News
* Models: see old letters (MD)
* **KT/MS to draft** with aid of volunteers
* Examples from 2015 and 2016:
	+ [https://listserv.brown.edu/archives/cgi\-bin/wa?A2\=ind1702\&L\=TEI\-L\&P\=R11940\&X\=5D1AAFF6A4CBAE0BCC\&Y\=mdalmau%40indiana.edu](https://listserv.brown.edu/archives/cgi-bin/wa?A2=ind1702&L=TEI-L&P=R11940&X=5D1AAFF6A4CBAE0BCC&Y=mdalmau@indiana.edu)
	+ [https://listserv.brown.edu/archives/cgi\-bin/wa?A2\=ind1512\&L\=TEI\-L\&P\=R8125\&X\=5D1AAFF6A4CBAE0BCC\&Y\=mdalmau%40indiana.edu](https://listserv.brown.edu/archives/cgi-bin/wa?A2=ind1512&L=TEI-L&P=R8125&X=5D1AAFF6A4CBAE0BCC&Y=mdalmau@indiana.edu)


 
### Communication Board to Community


* Posting minutes on TEI\-L (incl. highlights)?
* More News: ideas “monthly digest”, announce conference etc., council news
* Twitter feed?
	+ Who to encourage?


### Strategic Planning?


Where do we want the TEI to be in five years? Ten years?
We discussed the following questions as possibilities:


* + Grants
		- Support grants in the community by Letter of Supports
		- remind partners of the possibility to include contributions to the TEI in the proposal (institutional membership).
		- TEI as mediator or applicant for grants? No current practice.
	+ Sharing the Logo etc.
		- TEI is willing to support activities featuring the TEI, if there is no money involved
	+ Funding support by TEI\-C?
		- do we want to institutionalize?
		- keep room for technical activities, e.g. additional meetings, support for volunteer contributors, infrastructure
* **HC/Virtual to evaluate financial situation / budget for new activities**


* + Free membership for workshops members
		- The process is not very well established and cumbersome. Can we set up a better process or should cancel it due to administrative overhead?
		- publicity?
	+ How to attract members?
		- What is the benefit?
			* e.g. Tapas access
			* Oxygen\-free\-licences?
			* Give visibility to private companies?
		- Update Website on membership?
	+ Council
		- enlarge?
		- prolong the terms? And keep turn\-over?
		- establish roles liek “volunteer members” or “deputies” to involve more people?
	+ TEI Access
		- Service and Member Benefit in partnership with APEX in which the TEI\-C serves as an aggregator for the outsourcing of digitization and encoding (following TEI Tite guidelines).


 
* **KT to check status of TEI Access with John Unsworth**


* bring forward to next meeting


### Technical infrastructure


* Current infrastructural need:
	+ Council with root service for Jenkins, ROMA, Oxgarage etc.
	+ Board with GUI oriented services for Website, documentation (wiki, files), jTEI, administrative databases, mailing\-list
* Current solutions:
	+ administrative: Wild Apricot, Virtual
	+ Mailing lists: teil\-l/Board/Council: Northeastern, nabble (for the archive)
	+ jTEI: OJS@ADHO
	+ Website: Wordpess@ADHO
	+ Wiki: mediawiki@ADHO
	+ Jenkins (UVic, Paderborn)
	+ Council anything else ADHO
* Documentation / Agreements
	+ Which software is involved?
	+ Do we have official agreements? Do we need them?
* Possible solutions
	+ replace payment from institutional members by in\-kind contributions in form of technical infrastructure?
* Management of passwords
	+ LM to set up keepass file. Update passwords as well.


Any other business
------------------


none
 


