---
layout: page.njk
title: "TEI Board Conference Call: 7 May 2010"
---
# TEI Board Conference Call: 7 May 2010









Sarah Wells


Certification of the meeting* The meeting was certified at \~14:00 UTC, with the following members present:
 Lou Burnard (LB), Julia Flanders (JF), Daniel O'Donnell (DO), Veronika Lux
 (VL), Daniel Pitti (DP), Laurent Romary (LR), Susan Schreibman (SS), Sarah
 Wells (SW) and Christian Wittern (CW). David Sewell (DS) also joined the
 call.
Approval of minutes* The minutes from the last meeting (teleconference on Monday, February 10,
 2010, 1400 UTC) were approved.
Webmaster* DS offered a report of his activities since taking over web site management
 from Christine Ruotolo at the beginning of 2010\. James Cummings of Oxford is
 serving as an associate webmaster. Www.tei\-c.org is housed at the University
 of Virginia Library; its system administrator is Shayne Brandon of IATH.
 


	+ Archival items in the “vault” were moved from Oxford to the
	 TEI server and cleaned up. The 2009 Michigan Members meeting web
	 site has been archived. The site can also now pull dynamic
	 content from external sources into the OpenCMS pages. This
	 allows the [list of
	 members](/Membership/current.xml) to be updated daily.
	+ The Michigan website for the 2009 TEI Members Meeting was [permanently archived](/Vault/MembersMeetings/2009/) on tei\-c.org. On the webmaster's
	 "to do" list is obtaining website files from earlier meetings,
	 if possible, to create similar permanent archives.
	+ James Cummings began work on a Wordpress\-based solution for
	 providing a more flexible newsfeed for www.tei\-c.org.
	+ After experimenting with "virtual language hosts" that would
	 enable searching the various localizations of the Guidelines
	 (en.guidelines.tei\-c.org, fr.guidelines.tei\-c.org, etc), DS and
	 his team realized that they could achieve nearly the same
	 functionality with some tweaking of the Google search bar (work
	 to be completed in the near future).
Council* LR reported on the two\-day Council meeting in Dublin’s Digital Humanities
 Observatory on April 29\-30, but all greens and ambers were resolved. Good
 progress on new manuscript transcription proposal, biblStruct, Hyphenation
 and evolution of ODD.


 A symposium on TEI models for scholarly publishing was held on the 28th. He
 offered praise for Oxford’s editorial work. Thanks to Kevin and the DHO and
 local organization. Comprehensive set of discussion points provided [on\-line](https://docs.google.com/Doc?id=dv3dx7h_12gtqzjxg5)
 (thanks to Juliane and Dot).
Chair's Report (DO)* The Chair presented a report of his activities since the last meeting. He has
 been engaged primarily in maintenance and facilitation and well as various
 activities involving work with others (e.g. a lost membership application,
 some "selling" of the TEI to potential new members, some minor maintenance
 on the shopping cart systems, discussion of the work on the Journal of the
 TEI and the TEI\-EJ, participating in council activity, making suggestions
 for improvement to the website and news\-server). Using money from the
 Mellon, he hired Perry Trollard to write a script to up\-date the "current
 membership" list from the membership database once per day . 


	+ AccessTEI. This has been moving slowly, but a beta version of
	 the web portal and some publicity material will be released
	 soon.
	+ Membership Management Systems. Research into systems that could
	 handle our membership needs has been somewhat stagnant recently,
	 but needs to be revived. This is possibly something that needs a
	 sub\-committee to investigate in more detail.
Financial* SW reported that we have received approximately half of the invoiced
 membership payments for 2009\. The Board asked for a comparison of how this
 compares to previous year, so SW will send out a comparison.
Members' Meeting* CW reported on planning for the 2010 Members’ Meeting. A planning committee
 has been holding monthly teleconferences and has posted calls for workshop,
 presentation, and poster proposals. There has been a good response so far.
 Two keynote speakers, Tomaž Erjavec and Ian Gregory, have been invited. The
 committee is planning to begin soliciting exhibitors soon. JF suggested that
 the program committee might be able to help solicit sponsors from previous
 Members’ Meetings. 


The Board asked about the meeting budget and CW will ask the planning
 committee to create a spreadsheet showing preliminary and anticipated
 expenses.
Journal Committee* LB reported that the TEI Journal will be published on [revues.org](http://revues.org) on a TEI\-based publishing system. A
 CFP is still in draft form, but needs to be released in the next few weeks.
 There are still some detailed to be worked on in the format for submissions,
 but LB is working with the technical staff at revues.org. The Journal will
 be published once a year, drawing from papers presented at the annual
 Members’ Meeting. 


The committee has drawn up a list of people to invite to sit on the editorial
 board. The Journal editorial positions were approved for 3\-year positions as
 suggested in the board mailing list.


SS and LB then recused themselves from the meeting early and the remaining
 members of the Board approved offering SS the Editor\-in\-Chief position, LB
 the Technical Editor position, and Kevin Walker the Managing Editor
 position.
SIG Grants* There was discussion concerning a 2nd call for SIG Grant proposals. They will
 go out in mid\-September.




