---
layout: page.njk
title: "TEI Board Minutes: Google Hangout 21 July 2016"
---
# TEI Board Minutes: Google Hangout 21 July 2016




Attending
---------


* Marjorie Burghardt (MB)
* Hugh Cayless (HC)
* Michelle Dalmau (MD)
* Kevin Hawkins (KH)
* Martin Mueller (MM)
* Kathryn Tomasek (KT)
* John Unsworth (JU)
* Pip Willcox (PW)




Action Items
------------


1. MM to schedule meeting space for Board for Tuesday.
2. KH, MD and Claudia to complete work on copyright statement following Claudia’s suggestion
 from email.
3. PW to check with Nick H about capabilities of voting technology.
4. MD to follow up on plans for commissioning a study




Minutes
-------



### Meeting Procedures and Other Announcements


The meeting was quorate.
March 2016 Minutes and April 2016 Minutes were approved and posted.
June 2016 minutes were approved to be posted before August 1\.


### 2016 Members' Meeting and Conference Update (MM)



#### Conference Program


The conference program is nearly set. Need to assign moderators. Perhaps best to wait
 until we know who is attending.


#### Scheduling the Board Meeting


Ideally, we would like some overlap with Council meeting, which will be held all day
 on Sunday and Monday and half day Tuesday.
* There will be a memorial event in honor of Sebastian Rahtz in Oxford on 27 September.
 Because James Cummings will be at the Council meeting, PW will be attending the service
 to represent DHOxSS. It is hoped there will be an opportunity for James and others
 to join remotely. Others welcome.
* JU will be attending ACRL in Washington, D.C. on 27 \& 28 September. Possibly Skype
 in to deliver budget report. (With backup recording ahead of time.)


Board to meet for half day on Tuesday. Council in morning, joint lunch, with a half
 or three\-quarters of an hour on either side to fine tune Whither TEI discussion. Board
 to meet in the afternoon. Action Item: MM to schedule meeting space for Board Meeting on Tuesday, September
 27\.


#### Problematic Copyright Statement in ConfTool


Reviewed latest reply to our proposed revisions to the copyright statement from Claudia.
 We agree with Claudia’s proposal to have everyone accept the current statement, followed
 by an email from the Chair to TEI\-L about implicit agreement to publish abstracts
 in conference materials with authors maintaining rights. The Local Hosts will contact
 the authors about assigning a CC\-BY license. Action Item: KH, MD and Claudia will work on this.


#### "Whither TEI?" Session


Will be final plenary between 1:30 and 4:30 on Friday. Council will take charge of
 the program and will serve as facilitators of this session. There was some discussion
 of where MM’s position paper fits in here. Council has talked about posing questions
 to audience; make the session a discussion. We will use the TEI list for seeding the
 discussion and capture responses to the wiki.



### Election Update for 2017 (Pip)


PW outlined procedure and results:
* 5 open places for the TAPAS board, 8 standing
* 5 open places for the Technical Council, 8 standing
* 2 open places for the Board, 2 standing \[*Note: There are 3 open places on the Board, not 2 as reported in the call. This error
 was picked up shortly after the call, and email discussion ensued about ways to get
 sufficient accepted nominations.*]


What would be the procedure in this case? Possibility of adding a write\-in line, if
 the voting software, OpaVote, allows for it; do the same for TAPAS and Council, though
 this brings potential issues of not having been asked to stand.
Voting to open 22 August


### TEI\-C Website, Phase 1 Migration (KH/MD)



#### Update on Bids


Reference to email info about bid from KH; KH is negotiating with LibUX and will be
 in touch with MD and JU for contract review and signatures.


#### Call to replace Web Administrators?


Waiting to hear from Nick about his intentions; KH assures that most is well documented,
 hopes that what is left will be manageable by one web site admin, especially after
 the WordPress migration.
Tabled for discussion over email.



### TAPAS Update (MD)



#### Reporting Requirements


MD was contacted by Julia Flanders (JF) about TAPAS reporting requirements for this
 year.
How to track TEI\-C members using TAPAS in Wild Apricot? Is there a TAPAS\-specific
 membership category that can be used for reporting?
JU reminds us that TEI\-C membership is a requirement for using TAPAS so the question
 is: how many active members does TAPAS have?
TAPAS\-led survey for reporting use/impact


#### TAPAS\-led Survey for Reporting Use/Impact


JF planning Survey TEI Community about value and use of TAPAS\-\-solicits questions
 from Board if we have any particular questions
* What is TAPAS delivering proportional to investment (Equivalent to question of how
 many active users)
* Do you consider a valuable member benefit?
* Did you join the TEI because of TAPAS?


MD to Skype in with JF in mid\-August with summary of discussion.
Please post to list asap with additional questions.



### Proposal for Community Development of a TEI\-Aware XML Editor for Teaching (MB \& HC)


See [Compelling TEI\-L Discussion](https://listserv.brown.edu/archives/cgi-bin/wa?A1=ind1607&L=TEI-L#1 "Compelling TEI-L Discussion") for the [Need of Lightweight XML Editor for Teaching the TEI](https://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/Editor_for_teaching_TEI_-_features "Need of Lightweight XML Editor for Teaching the TEI")
How can we incentivize this work? Commission, as part of the Rahtz Award, some other
 way?
Discussion of Elena Gonzales\-Blanco’s web\-based TEI Scribe\-\-was posted to list in
 alpha release
JEdit being investigated; TEI Scribe as well;
A training SIG probably premature; education SIG is inactive; probably orthogonal
 to Q of what it would take to produce a free TEI editor;
Good idea not to make it too big a project; start hands\-on; commission a study; 1,000
 \- 2,000 dollars or Euros\-\-try to find someone actually looking into this; with conclusion
 that if it isn’t possible to get more than 60% of features….
MD to continue discussion over email



Administrative Tasks for Outsourcing (Michelle)
-----------------------------------------------


See [wiki document](https://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/Quote_for_Outsourcing_TEI-C_Administrative_Duties "wiki document").
KH has added some comments.
JU notes that most listed would be covered.
Discussion to go back to email, and JU to let MD know whether anything should be added.


