---
layout: page.njk
title: "TEI Board Conference Call: 29 January 2007"
---
# TEI Board Conference Call: 29 January 2007









Chris Ruotolo


The meeting commenced shortly after 1700 UTC, with the following in attendance: 


* Syd Bauman (SB)
* Julia Flanders (JF)
* John Lavagnino (JL)
* Daniel O'Donnell (DO)
* Daniel Pitti (DP)
* Chris Ruotolo (CR)
* John Unsworth (JU)
* Ray Siemens (RS)


Lou Burnard (LB) and Sebastian Rahtz (SR) joined the call near the end.


CaféPress and P5 Logo* DO reported that setting up a CaféPress site would be quick and easy if we wanted
 to
 pursue it. No cash outlay is involved; we would buy items from them at a steep markup,
 and anything we make over that would be profit. CaféPress sends a check with the
 proceeds each month. JF suggested assigning this to an enthusiastic group of people
 who
 can generate ideas from the community and run them by the Board. Mugs with the TEI
 or P5
 logo seem the obvious item to start with. Sales of funny/interesting T\-shirts could
 be
 healthy and instill a spirit of fun and participation in the TEI. The Board agreed
 to
 start with a basic mug with the TEI logo. DO will arrange it. He will need banking
 info
 from DP. 
 DO
Arrange with CaféPress to sell a
 basic mug with the TEI logo.



There was a PayPal account set up for the 2006 MM in Victoria. DP hasn't seen any
 money
 come in through it. JF noted that one or two people registered for the 2006 MM through
 PayPal. The money doesn't come by check, but stays in the account until you do something
 with it, so someone needs to check our PayPal account to see if there are funds in
 it.
 JF noted that people in other parts of the world have trouble using PayPal. There
 are
 alternatives in Europe and elsewhere that we might explore. DO asked if we could arrange
 to accept credit cards directly. People can do wire transfers or checks, but it's
 expensive. 
 DO, DP, JF, RS
Continue the
 discussion of online payment.



DO reported on the P5 logo. The logo itself could be completed quickly; the more
 difficult part is deciding what constitutes P5 conformance. The Council is currently
 discussing this issue.
TEI in medium term* The medium term discussion has been moving along via email. SR still intends to write
 a
 statement. There will be another teleconference on this topic in about three weeks.
 More
 discussion over email would be welcome, even while papers are coming in.
Standard operating procedures (SOP) document* JF and SB have made changes to the [SOP document](https://tei-c.org/Board/procedures.xml) and
 posted it to the website for review. The document will be finalized by the end of
 February, so any comments or suggestions must be made in the next week or two. After
 that
 time, the document will be moved to the [Consortium](/About/) section of the website, so that the public can access it. SB
 suggested that the Board look carefully at the reimbursement section and discuss it.
 This
 is a good opportunity for all Board members to refamiliarize themselves with the standard
 operating procedures. 
 JF, SB
28 February
 2007Finalize SOP document and move it to the Consortium section.
Nomination committee* The committee consists of RS (chair), JF, Christian Wittern, and Ariana Ciula. RS
 will
 wait a few weeks before sending out the call for nominations. The deadline will be
 June 1,
 and RS will report back to the Board after that date.
Council activity* The Council is serious about getting P5 done by October. There is an ad\-hoc planning
 committee to manage the push toward completion. An ordered list of tasks to be completed
 will soon go to the editors for review. Council expects to have a project plan up
 by early
 next week, and to assign tasks. A small group of Council members (not the editors)
 will
 focus on publication formats.
TEI Tight* JU has been in touch with Perry Trolard, who finished the work he was assigned. JU
 has
 asked Perry to write summaries to accompany his results, for different audiences:
 one
 for DLF, to explain some of the choices made in reducing the three schemas down to
 one;
 and one for Council, to explain the purpose of TEI Tight, how it is different from
 TEI
 Lite, and why we need both. Perry is working on it and should be done by the end of
 the
 month; finished documents will be sent to Matt Gibson, Christian Wittern, and SB.
 DP
 asked if the finished product will be reviewed by the three institutions who contributed
 their schemas; JU will ask Perry to include a statement in the documents for DLF,
 suggesting that the three institutions would be well suited to review the work. The
 next
 step is to work with vendors to negotiate a discount for projects using the standard.
 TEI could play an aggregator role in which we would gather keyboarding material from
 small encoding projects and serve as the point of contact with the vendors. By the
 end
 of spring we could have the basic outlines and agreements and documents in place;
 we
 could start promoting it over the summer, and emphasize it at the next MM. 
 JU
mid\-March 2007Try to have a TEI Tight plan
 for the Council to review before its next meeting; encourage PT to stick to his
 deadline.
Documents and archives* No action on this yet. DO mentioned that Lethbridge might be interested in becoming
 a
 TEI host institution. Lethbridge has a new documentation and archiving program, so
 this
 might be a likely area for an in\-kind contribution.
2007 Members' Meeting* SR sent an email to the Board summarizing the substantial progress on the MM.


DO asked about the possible TEI event in Taiwan. JF reported that Professor Fu has
 expressed strong interest in hosting a 20th anniversary event in the fall, and combining
 it with a TEI training workshop. JF will nudge if she doesn't hear back from him.
 SR
 suggested waiting until after the MM date is finalized (likely to be the first weekend
 in November). 


Discussion of soliciting bids for the 2008 MM. The TEI Chair sends out the call for
 bids in early spring. In the past it has gone out in March, but there's no disadvantage
 to doing it sooner. Sending out a reminder after the initial call is a good idea.
 We
 should stress that we are seeking a location somewhere other than North America in
 2008\.
 JF will send DO last year's call for bids as a model. 
 DO
March 2007Send out the call for bids for the 2008
 Members' Meeting.
Fundraising* JF, JU, and JL reported on the status of the granting committee. JF sent a list of
 relevant US funding and deadlines to JL. DO noted that many post\-P5 activities will
 be
 grant fundable and suggested that we might want to wait until after the P5 completion
 before actively pursuing any grants. JF mentioned the NEH digital humanities startup
 grants ($30K, April deadline); this is the kind of thing we could probably get if
 we
 applied for it. DP mentioned a new IMLS and NEH grant program focused on collaborative
 digital initiatives between cultural heritage institutions, scholars, and IT. DO again
 questioned whether we have sufficient time and resources to pursue such grants at
 this
 time, but DP noted that grants bring in a lot of money relative to other fundraising.
 Gathering information about grants, or providing a list of TEI\-related activities
 that
 have been funded by grants in the past, could be a member benefit. 


JF noted that NEH and IMLS grants have a long lead time, and that the monies must
 be
 awarded to institutions and not the TEI directly. The I18N grant came from ALLC, which
 made it easy to get the funds quickly. It would be very useful to identify more
 potential funding organizations like ALLC. We should remind TEI members that the we
 can
 help them write their grants, and that they can include TEI membership in their
 proposals. 


DO asked the fundraising committtee to develop a strategy for pursuing grants. JL
 volunteered.
 JL
February 2007Draft a
 strategy statement for how the TEI should go about taking advantage of grants.
New website* CR gave an update on the website work. The basic Open CMS setup is done, and the test
 site has been moved back to the jefferson server. Test content is being loaded. DO
 and
 James Cummings have provided detailed feedback on the interface. CR is working on
 recruiting more local help with the project. The Board agreed that the site must be
 completed before the 2007 MM. A professional\-looking site will be crucial for
 fundraising. Completion over the summer would be ideal. LB asked about current
 maintenance of the site; CR said that maintenance requests could be sent to her.
Wrapping up* There was no time for the longer term discussion of editor, host, and officer
 contributions and commitments, but this issue needs to be kept on the Board's agenda.


DP and SB discussed how to administer the $20K in grant money for internationalization.
 Individuals can invoice the TEI as they complete their work, but DP would like to
 see a
 budget in advance so he knows what to expect. SR will send email to the Board pointing
 to the project outline, which includes an itemization. JF noted that the budget doesn't
 break it down by language, or specifics. SR will make sure that groups have a clear
 notion of what they're getting. 


 The meeting adjourned 1808 UTC.


The meeting adjourned at approximately 1800 UTC.




