---
layout: page.njk
title: "TEI Board Minutes: Conference Call 2013-02-13"
---
# TEI Board Minutes: Conference Call 2013-02-13







 In Attendance
 
 * Elena Pierazzo (EP)
* Lou Burnard (LB)
* Arianna Ciula (AC)
* James Cummings (JC)
* Laura Mandell (LM)
* Martin Mueller (MM)
* David Sewell (DS)
* John Unsworth (JU)
* John Walsh (JW)
* Glen Worthey (GW)


Apologies: Sophie David (SD)




 Agenda
 
 * Minutes and apologies
* communication with the members \-\- results of the survey and discussion
* conference update
* treasurer update
* TEI\-journal: support for copy editing and managing editor
* Getting started
* website update




 Minutes
 
 * JW agrees to take minutes and release them quickly.
* Recommendation to select minutes\-taker in advance of future meetings.




 Discussion of Communication with Members
 
 * Board Chair EP had sent a short 4\-question survey about communication (topics,
 frequency of communication, management of communication efforts) to Board members.
 After briefly reviewing the survey results, discussion focused on producing a regular
 Newsletter from the TEI to members.




 Brainstorming on Possible Topics for Newsletter and Who Might Be Responsible for
 Different Sections
 
 * Making TEI friendly. (LM)
* How money is spent. (EP/JU)
* Council activities. (JC)
* Outreach activities (TEIJ, Members Meeting) (JW)
* Update on 2013 Conference and Members Meeting (AC)
* Members voice: JW suggested a regular section featuring a particular TEI member
 and how TEI is being used in their institution, project, etc. Decided to defer this
 section for a subsequent newsletter, in order to get a first newsletter out more
 quickly.
* Action Item (LM, EP, JU, JC, JW, AC): Have drafts of sections
 in one week.




 Report on upcoming Members Meeting
 
 * [CFP](http://digilab2.let.uniroma1.it/teiconf2013/call-for-papers/) and [website](http://digilab2.let.uniroma1.it/teiconf2013/) published.
* JU exploring hosted version of conftool. 
 Proposal to move to
 hosted conftool approved.




 Treasurer's Report (JU)
 
 * Since meeting in Texas migration of treasurer activities from Sarah Wells/Virgina
 to JU/Brandeis has been completed.
* JU provided update on current membership, paid dues, outstanding invoices.
* JU reported more on the membership tool and many functionalities/services it
 offers. Encouraged Board to explore and use membership tool.




 European membership efforts
 
 * Arianna communicated with CLARIN, who will be joining at $250 level and is also
 interested in closer collaboration with TEI.
* Arianna also reports that the new Italian Associazione per l'Informatica
 Umanistica e la Cultura Digitale is receptive and may become a TEI member.
* Lou reports on DARIAH's activities, important role of TEI, and discussions about
 DARIAH's planned efforts to offer some TEI\-related training.




 TEI Journal
 
 * TEI\-J has requested a second round of funding, at the same amount per issue
 ($1000\), for copy editing. Board previously agreed to continue the copy\-editing
 funding at current levels, with expectation that Board will continue to receive annual
 reports on the Journal. 
 Action item (EP \& JU): Elena will
 communicate to TEI\-J decision to continue copy editing funding, and EP will work
 with
 JU to get the funds to TEI\-J.
* Martin Holmes enthusiastically approved as new Technical Editor for TEI\-J.




 Discussed Possibility of Resuming Work on 
 Getting Started With
 TEI Document
 
 * Something was lost in the minuting of this item




 Web site migration (DS)
 
 * DS is working on implementing the deprecation of TEI P4 in the web site.
* DS and Kevin Hawkins (from Council) intend to produce a migration plan, but need
 to know the target environment/platform to do adequate planning.
* JU reminds us about the possibility of bartering financial services for
 hosting/sys admin services from ADHO. The ADHO option would provide a standard, hosted
 Linux environment, with lots of flexibility.






