---
layout: page.njk
title: "TEI Board Meeting Agenda - Thursday, November 8th, 2018"
---
# TEI Board Meeting Agenda - Thursday, November 8th, 2018
via Zoom




Agenda
======




* Meeting Procedures and Other Announcements
	+ Approve minutes of September and October meetings
		- Do we have sufficient votes for approval of [September Board](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1C8jBHrQZ0LZCRyyyWmrCG1PDGCK1dLJZNoNhAYAI-E4/edit) minutes? MD sent general approval
		- MM : not prepared yet (action item for GV)
		- [October Board minutes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1u9GMYCGAAq5B0lpsPBNB9odu3MQTZLPlMoFLjvyV4_E/edit?usp=drive_web&ouid=104936754729048228814): MD sent general approval
* Free memberships for TEI course participants
	+ Upgrade Wild Apricot to add more “contacts”? (2 events are waiting)
	+ John Unsworth's suggestion: "inactive" list
	+ Abolish policy?
	+ Free membership policy is currently announced at<https://textencodinginitiativeconsortium.wildapricot.org/Events/>
* TEI2019 Program Committee
* Developing “TEI\-project list” (mail from Lou)
* TEI\-C infrastructure
* Note: Internationalization and procedures for requesting/granting funding for December agenda
* New Business
* Any Other Business







**Attendees**: 




* Kathryn Tomasek (KT)
* Laurent Romary (LR)
* Kiyonori Nagasaki (KN)
* Georg Vogeler (GV)
* Martina Scholger (MS)
* Luis Meneses (LM)
* 




**Regret**: Hugh Cayless, Michelle Dalmau




Action Points
=============




* **KT** to seek approval of minutes over email.
* **LR** to contact informally DAiRAH/CLARIN community on providing server infrastructure to TEI\-C
* **GV** to contact Gimena and set up program committee
* **LM** to collect update information on projects
* **LM** to send around information password file and key to it separately, e.g. text message
* **GV** to prepare minutes from MM
* **HC** to provide figures on extending wild apricot to include more “contacts”




Minutes
=======




* Meeting Procedures and Other Announcements
	+ Approve minutes of September and October meetings
		- Do we have sufficient votes for approval of [September Board](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1KkDeWsVIqxOT2oFPayYnvZKTDYSzHBsjLvBBWsPe9cE/edit) minutes?
			* MD approves via mail 5\.11\.18
			* GV approves
			* LR approves via mail 24\.10\.18
		- MM : not prepared yet (action item for GV)
		- [October Board minutes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1u9GMYCGAAq5B0lpsPBNB9odu3MQTZLPlMoFLjvyV4_E/edit?usp=drive_web&ouid=104936754729048228814):
			* MD approves via mail 5\.11\.18
			* LR approves mail 24\.10\.
			* KT approves in minutes document 13\.12\.
	+ Tabled for handling over email\-\-KT




Free memberships for TEI course participants
--------------------------------------------




* Upgrade Wild Apricot to add more “contacts”? (2 events are waiting)
* John Unsworth's suggestion: "inactive" list
* Abolish policy?
* Free membership policy is currently announced at<https://textencodinginitiativeconsortium.wildapricot.org/Events/>




LR suggests to extend number of “contacts”, at around addition 40/50$/month? 




KT supports to keep the policy and to extend




MS supports to keep the policy




**HC** to give figures: how much do we spend currently? How much space the increase would give us?




TEI2019 Program Committee
-------------------------




Before 2016 PC chair or liaison from Board




Suggestion: return to old policy to name a local board member as PC Chair combined with a co\-chair from the board to serve in coming committees (e.g. as pc chair or act as co\-chair)




\=\> TEI2019 that could be GV and Gimena del Rio Riande




General approval of this procedure




**GV** to contact Gimena




Board and Council are invited to serve as PC member; GV will ask around and suggest names; LR is willing to serve.




Developing “TEI\-project list” (mail from Lou)
----------------------------------------------





http://www.tei\-c.org/activities/projects/



LM: there is no backlog anymore




LR: why not campaigning?




GV to delete sentence on “not maintained” (done)




KN (in chat): I think it is valuable to list the links of the TEI\-adopted project descriptions in the Web sites of research grants, such as NEH and Andrew Mellon.




MS: Link to the project itself?




LM to collect update information on projects




TEI\-C infrastructure
---------------------




### Status of website transition




Have almost completed Phase One




Phase Two is about having content in a GitHub repository to improve site transparency and replicability




move to another host? LR: how much would it cost to move to another private host? TEI is connected with academia, so academic institutions could provide the service, e.g. data centres by CLARIN/DARIAH. Why not professionalise it really?




KT: good idea. How to proceed?




LR: would be willing to forward the proposal in the CLARIN/DARIAH context (e.g. humanum, Lyon computing service)




GV: Hardware is not part of the DARIAH infrastructure in Austria.




LR: France abd NL looks better.




**LR** to contact informally humanum about possibilities (and others in the DARIAH/CLARIN community)




### Password (google etc.)




**LM** to send around information password file and key to it separately, e.g. text message  





Note: Internationalization and procedures for requesting/granting funding for December agenda
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------




New Business
------------




none




Any Other Business
------------------




none  



