---
layout: page.njk
title: "TEI-C Board Meeting 2020-07-16"
---
# TEI-C Board Meeting 2020-07-16
via zoom


Attending
=========


* Kathryn Tomasek (KT)
* Gimena del Rio Riande (GRR)
* Christiane Fritze (CF)
* Hugh Cayless (HC)
* Luis Meneses (LM)
* Martina Scholger (MS)
* Pip Willcox (PW)


Apologies
=========


* James Cummings (JC)


Action items from last meetings
===============================


* see Asana


Agenda
======


* Meeting Procedures and Other Announcements
* Internationalisation
	+ FORCE 11 partnership
	+ [GROBID](https://grobid.readthedocs.io/en/latest/Introduction/) (GRR)
* ISO subcommittee TC 37/SC 3 invitation subcommittee (via Detlef Reineke on
behalf of Laurent Romary)


Minutes
=======


* Meeting Procedures and Other Announcements
	+ Approval of [last meeting minutes](https://tei-c.org/board/tei-c-board-meeting-2020-06-18/):
		- PW, KT, GDR approve last meeting’s minutes
* Internationalisation
	+ FORCE 11 partnership
		- Conference will be online this year.
		- GRR will be teaching and discussing ideas that connection to work of
		internationalization group: standards, internationalization,
		languages
		- a good place to highlight internationalization group’s work
	+ Meeting with JTEI editors 2020\-07 (KT and GRR)
		- GRR suggested applying to [DOAJ](https://doaj.org/)
			* jTEI editors agree with this
		- [GROBID](https://grobid.readthedocs.io/en/latest/Introduction/) (GRR)
			* it would great to find someone to get in touch with them to
			discuss TEI as markup for journals
			* ask Laurent about this when he joins us in August
			* Standard called JATS is current
	+ Update from Hugh and Martina re: Mellon and internationalization?
		- Moving ahead with a planning grant draft to be handed in September
		1, 2020
	+ Update from internationalization working group
		- HC has made a pretty good progress with the specification page
		translations
		- HC has made no progress yet on the website relaunch project
		- The prototype is really cool for the translation
		- Raff Viglianti is working on a glossary with “Air table”, starting
		with a bottom up approach
		- He plans to present this with a poster at the ADHO conference
		- JC: Asks (from another zoom meeting) whether any lessons to learn
		from recent TEI Publisher sprint for translations that Magdalena
		Turska ran?
			* There was discussion in a previous internationalization
			meeting regarding the tool they used. The [workflow that Hugh developed in GitHub](https://hcayless.github.io/spec-translator-demo/app.html) can be used
			in the update scenario.
		- HC says this is a different level of internationalization (i18n); MS
		says this will become more relevant at a later stage.
		- JC: Fair enough, thanks.
	+ GRR and Raff Viglianti will be teaching an online course in Argentina in
	September
		- The [course](https://mith.umd.edu/minimaldigipub/es.html)
		focuses on minimal editions
		- They will use CETEIcean. HC has written a tutorial ([English](https://github.com/TEIC/CETEIcean/tree/master/tutorial_en), [Spanish](https://github.com/TEIC/CETEIcean/tree/master/tutorial_es)) that he is working into a state that will make it
		easily translatable
	+ Website:
		- MS/CF: How can we support/help you to put things forward?
		- HC: it’s a serious amount of work and requires time to be built into
		the project application
		- HC proposes switching his tasks of website relaunch and translation
		tool within the project.
	+ ISO subcommittee TC 37/SC 3 invitation (via Detlef Reineke on behalf of
	Laurent Romary)
		- Laurent will join us in August
* Communications Manager
	+ Nobody has applied for this position.
	+ GRR has been tweeting on Fridays, alongside OpenGLAM
	+ GRR offers to continue: warmly welcomed
	+ new deadline: end of September 2020
	+ start date is negotiable, suggested start of November 2 2020
	+ make the term negotiable, suggested minimum term: 12 month
	+ **Send a reminder to the list at the start of September**
	+ **GRR tweets, CF posts DHD DHA list**
* Update from Kathryn on behalf of the nominations and elections committee
	+ We had a total of 35 nominations:
		- 7 for 3 open positions on the Board, no duplicates
		- 27 for 5 positions on the Council, with 20 multiple nominations, for
		a total of 14 nominees
		- 1 for TAPAS Advisory Board
			* the person who has been nominated has agreed to stand for
	+ start the slate beginning of September
* AoB
	+ none


Date of next Meetings
=====================


Every month on the Third Thursday
* Aug 20, 2020 11:00 AM Eastern Time (US and Canada)
* Sep 17, 2020 11:00 AM Eastern Time (US and Canada)
* Oct 15, 2020 11:00 AM Eastern Time (US and Canada)
* Nov 19, 2020 11:00 AM Eastern Time (US and Canada)
* Dec 17, 2020 11:00 AM Eastern Time (US and Canada)


\-\-\-\-\-
* Jan 21, 2021 11:00 AM Eastern Time (US and Canada)
