---
layout: page.njk
title: "TEI Board Conference Call: 5 October 2007"
---
# TEI Board Conference Call: 5 October 2007









Chris Ruotolo


The meeting commenced shortly after 1400 UTC, with the following in attendance: 


* Lou Burnard (LB)
* John Lavagnino (JL)
* Daniel O'Donnell (DO)
* Daniel Pitti (DP)
* Chris Ruotolo (CR)


Approval of Minutes* [Minutes from the 5 May 2007 Board meeting](/Board/bm21.xml) were
 approved.
Chair's Report* Work is nearing completion on P5 and the new website. Two hosting bids for the 2008
 Members Meeting have been received. The VP of Finance at Lethbridge has
 agreed to handle the TEI's payables and receivables, using Lethbridge's online banking
 system. Details should be worked out by the Members Meeting. The Board agreed to
 table that 
 discussion for now, and take it up in November.
Treasurer's Report* DP didn't have time to prepare a detailed Treasurer's Report on short notice, but
 gave a quick financial update. One more host needs to give a financial report in order
 for DP to pull 
 together the tax report for the IRS; he wants to have it done no later than October
 15th. By the Members Meeting, he will have a complete reconciliation for the year,
 and 
 a report on the tax filing. It's not yet clear if the financial cushion we had at
 the beginning of the year still holds. So far, more than $100K has come in in 2007
 membership fees.
 The US dollar's slide means that the value of the grant moneys put into the TEI coffers
 last December is now dropping (although expenses incurred in the US are proportionally
 cheaper). 
 DP should have the financial documents in order at least a week before the MM. He
 will give a summary at the business meeting and then open it up for questions.
Members Meeting Report* Susan Schreibman is doing a wonderful job organizing the meeting, and everything is
 on track. Registration is almost at 100\. The only negative is that most of the granting
 agencies 
 have backed out at the last minute. There will still be a grants roundtable, but
 it will be less grand than anticipated. 
 So far, NSF, NEH and DLF are coming; SSHRC and HRC have canceled. The agenda for
 the business meeting still needs to be planned out; someone needs to take ownership
 of that. 
 We also need an agenda for the Board meeting on Sunday.
P5 Report* SR sent a detailed update to the Board list. The work is progressing well, and it
 looks like P5 will be delivered on time.
TEI/ISO Memorandum of Agreement* The memorandum of agreement relating to the work of ISO/TC 37/SC 4 has been signed.
Website Report* The design work and content revision for the new site are almost complete, but there
 are performance problems running OpenCMS on the jefferson server, making the site
 unacceptably slow.
 Amit Kumar and Shayne Brandon are doing some testing to determine whether the root
 of the problem is OpenCMS or the server. DP noted that the jefferson server is old
 and should be replaced. He has
 asked Shayne to cost out a dedicated server for the website. LB suggested that the
 website hosting could be outsourced. The new server farm at the U.Va. Library is
 another possibility.
Members Meeting Bids* We received a bare bones presentation from Reykyavik, and a strong presentation from
 CCH at King's College London. The Board members present felt that London was
 the stronger bid. The decision will be put to a vote on the Board list over the next
 ten days or so.
Printing the P5 Guidelines* While there should be a (more or less) final draft of the Guidelines on the website
 by the Members Meeting, we won't be ready to put it in PDF form until perhaps the
 new year. 
 At JU's suggestion, DO spoke to Tom Wagner of OmniPress, publisher of the P4 Guidelines.
 TW laid out the various printing options, which the Board will discuss at 
 the upcoming meeting. DO noted that OmniPress is keen on our business and will adjust
 their proposal to match our interest \-\- for example, they could provide 
 print on demand with no upfront cost. Other options include companies like lulu.com.
 Members still value the free printed copy of the Guidelines, which is one of the few
 concrete membership benefits remaining.
Kazan Conference* A conference on modern information technologies in a written context is planned for
 August 2008 in Kazan, Tatarstan, and several TEI\-affiliated Slavicists (David Birnbaum,
 Kevin Hawkins, Miranda
 Remnek) are involved. The organizers are looking for TEI representatives to offer
 a workshop. They are willing to cover a portion of the travel expenses for two lecturers.
 A similar event was held last year, but the organizers approached us too late for
 
 anyone to attend. However, the event was very successful. LB thinks it's a good
 idea and hopes we will participate. We need to decide who the key liaison will be;
 it could be 
 someone from the Board or the Council. We currently have no budget for the travel
 expenses not covered by the organizers. JL suggested that we could apply to grants
 to help fund
 TEI participation; for example, the British Academy has money for this sort of thing.
 JL will look into it. DO will respond to the organizers to indicate our interest
 and get more financial details.
 We can discuss it further at the upcoming Board meeting.


The meeting adjourned at approximately 15:03 UTC.




