---
layout: page.njk
title: "TEI-C Board Meeting 2020-02-20"
---
# TEI-C Board Meeting 2020-02-20
via Zoom


Attending
=========


* Kathryn Tomasek (KT)
* Christiane Fritze (CF)
* Hugh Cayless (HC)
* James Cummings (JC)
* Luis Meneses (LM)
* Pip Willcox (PW)
* Martina Scholger (MS)


Absent
======


* Gimena del Rio Riande (GRR)


Action items
============


* LM to forward the information about server migration to the infrastructure group
* PW, KT and HC to draft a proposal on bursary for  people from the global south to attend to be able the TEI conference by March
* KT, JC and HC to draft a mini grant program by March or April
* MK and KT to work on the announcement of the Rahtz price including getting in contact with the last award winners
* LM to list his task as “webmaster”
* LM to send the old job advertisement to the Board
* HC to launch the membership campaign
* PW and KT to draft the changing election terms for Board and Council
* PW and KT to word the procedure about early outgoing Board /Council members


Agenda
======


* Meeting Procedures and Other Announcements
* Migration to Debian 10 Servers via Humanum (LM)
* Updates
	+ Strategic budget allocations (KT)
	+ TAPAS Support / TEI Repository
	+ Announcement of the Rahtz Price
	+ Finding a Webmaster
	+ Conference documentation (nomination PC chair)
	+ Membership Campaign and Institutional Membership (HC)
	+ Ticketing System for Board actions (CF)
	+ Changing election terms for Board and Council Members (KT)
	+ Website: structure and content (HC)
	+ Internationalization strategy (HC, GRR)
	+ FORCE 11 partnership (GRR)
* Any Other Business


Minutes
=======


* Meeting Procedures and Other Announcements
	+ KT and JC aprove the [minutes from January meeting](https://tei-c.org/board/tei-c-board-meeting-2020-01-16/)
* Migration to Debian 10 Servers via Humanum (LM)
	+ LM to let the Infrastructure Group (IG) know about this
	+ Need for documentation on the wiki
		- all agree to let Humanum do the Server migration for us
* Updates
	+ Strategic budget allocations (KT)
		- bursary for travel and accomodation for people from the global South to be able to attend the TEI conference
			* HC: table exists with the estimated costs of this
		- to do: build a group to outline of the proposal
			* include PW, KT, HC
			* include a variation of the dinner with seniors practice of DH
			* work on this in March and present the draft at next meeting
	+ TAPAS Support / TEI Repository
		- KT summarizes that we don't have an agreement with TAPAS forever
		- Board is unclear on the value we have from TAPAS
		- other options might be: 
			* an arrangement with oXygen to do licensing for scholars in the global South \-\-would need procedure
			* localization, i18n projects ( \<\-\- funding from Mellon?)
		- consider to setting up a procedure for benefiting the TEI
			* idea: kind of mini grant program
			* schedule: is it linked with the conference? f.i announcement of winners?
				+ then in the next couple in the month,
				+ or rather announce the program during the conference
			* working group: KT, JC with the help of the treasurer HC
			* report on that by March or April
	+ Announcement the competition of the Rahtz Prize
		- documentation in the wiki
		- Committee is needed
		- Board Chair, Council Chair, third person of the TEI community
		- MS: is it okay always to have the same people in the committee? JC: These should change but determined by roles above which they have remained static for a while.
		- It would be a good idea to have a fallback member of the committee.
		- Perhaps add a member from the jTEI team.
		- Or someone who is a respected member of the community
		- John Walsh, Grant Simpson, and Saeed Moaddeli (winners of last years Rahtz prize)
		- KT and MS will work this out
	+ Finding a Webmaster
		- LM wants to step down.
		- LM to look for the advertisment with the job description from last time and to list all his tasks.
		- Do we need a webmaster or someone with far more sysadmin competencies?
			* We do need someone who feels responsible for keeping us aware of what needs updating; someone who sees the big picture. This may be a point at which we really do need a webmaster/web designer, WordPress expert. And leave sysadmin to IG. Possibly seek a webmaster and assistant webmaster with slightly different skillset.
	+ Conference documentation (nomination PC chair)
		- The time schedule proposal has been adapted for Nebraska according to the documentation of Georg – They are currently on track.
	+ Membership Campaign and Institutional Membership (HC)
		- implementing was a lot more complicated than last time
		- it is ready to go now
	+ Ticketing System for Board actions (CF)
		- SaaS Kanban Tools *with export functions* are not for free
		- <https://kanbantool.com/>
			* 5 € per user per month
		- <https://trello.com/pricing>
			* 10 USD per user per month
		- [meistertask](https://www.mindmeister.com/mt/signup?_ga=2.64852587.5358470.1582213275-967348873.1582213275) PRO
			* 8\.25 USD per user per month
		- [asana](https://asana.com/pricing?missingtranslation=en#i18n-404) PREMIUM
			* 10\.99 € per user per month
		- [kanbanize](https://kanbanize.com/en/)
			* 1\-15 users 99 USD per month
			* 16\-25 users 129 USD per month
	+ Changing election terms for Board and Council Members (KT)
		- Martina’s proposal for Council terms
			* Council talked about it
			* needs a policy/procedure for replacement of inactive council member
				+ PW and KT will work on the wording for this; JC suggests that it could be a separate section in the bylaws applying to both board and council.
		- PW and KT to spend some time during next week
	+ Website: structure and content (HC): postponed
	+ Internationalization strategy (HC, GRR): postponed
	+ FORCE 11 partnership (GRR): postponed
* Any Other Business
	+ none
