---
layout: page.njk
title: "TEI-C Board Meeting 2019-07-04"
---
# TEI-C Board Meeting 2019-07-04
via Zoom


Agenda
======


* Meeting Procedures and Other Announcements
	+ Approval of minutes from June meeting
* Updates
	+ [Conference](https://graz-2019.tei-c.org/) (MS?)
	+ Elections (PW)
	+ Infrastructure (LM \& MS)
	+ TEI Journal (KT)
	+ Hosts for 2020, 2021 (KT)
* New Business
	+ Query from Pip, 25 June, regarding conference registration for Board Members
	+ Query from Gimena, 25 June, regarding this program [https://www.thebritishacademy.ac.uk/programmes/writing\-workshops\-2019](https://www.thebritishacademy.ac.uk/programmes/writing-workshops-2019)
	+ 90 day oXygen licence for TEI Workshop
	+ Preparation of Graz Meetings
* Any Other Business


Attending
=========


* Kathryn Tomasek (KT)
* Christiane Fritze (CF)
* Hugh Cayless (HC, joined later)
* Luis Meneses (LM)
* Martina Scholger (MS)
* Pip Willcox (PW)
* Georg Vogeler (GV)
* Gimena del Rio Riande (GRR)


Action items
============


* PW to ask Scott on how to solve the problem that we have no nominations for TAPAS
* KT sends asking for suggestions for TEI Journal managing editor to board and council list before 9 July. (done)
* KT to send reminder on 22 July. (failed)
* Everyone: Please save these dates and times for Board duties in Graz.


Decisions
=========


* Board and Council Members may request and receive reimbursement for registration to annual TEI\-C Conference and Members’ Meeting.


Minutes
=======


* + Meeting Procedures and Other Announcements
		- KT approves the [June Minutes](https://tei-c.org/board/board-tei-c-board-meeting-2019-06-13/).
	+ Updates
		- [Conference](https://graz-2019.tei-c.org/)
			* GV via E\-Mail on July 2 2019 “Gimena and me are working on crafting sessions from the proposals and hope to present you something by the end of this week, so we could announce the final program during DH2019 in Utrecht.”
			* Call for posters on late\-breaking research by GRR via TEI\-L, deadline August 29 2019
			* discussion with one applicant has been resolved
			* a slight difference between announcement of demo session and the reality, because we have not 15 minutes for each demo. So 2 parallel sessions with 7\-10 minutes each \+ hands\-on time during poster session
			* trying to fund a reception during poster session
		- Elections
			* 11 people submitted bios.
				+ 4 for Board (2 positions available)
				+ 7 for Council (6 positions available)
				+ 0 for Tapas: PW will ask Scott to make suggestions how to solve
			* timeline: slate to be published July 8th (2 months and 2 days before deadline)
			* Pip has received a query about membership and whether people who choose a lower membership fee are added to the database\-\-will follow up over email with Hugh and Luis
			* Martina informs that the Council invites candidates  to join the Council meeting on Monday morning in Graz so they can see how the Council works
			* Here is how to extract the list of voters: [https://wiki.tei\-c.org/index.php/Voters\_for\_TEI\-C\_and\_TAPAS\_Elections](https://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/Voters_for_TEI-C_and_TAPAS_Elections)
		- Infrastructure
			* Wiki accounts
				+ write access is back
				+ MS will send a reminder to TEI\-L to get in contact with LM to reactivate wiki accounts
			* HumaNum Meeting: MOU
				+ meeting with Nicholas Larrousse last Friday
				+ we are moving forward
				+ a full formal MoU is not their practice; it would create hard work and time (in terms of years) and so they don’t do it.
				+ it seems to be a new process for them
				+ Can we get information what the difference between the formal and the less formal MoU is?
					- Nicholas is following up with Laurent
					- Not likely to get a contract or MOU;
					- HC: Service level agreement (SLA) would be a good idea (terms and conditions of service) e.g. procedures of ending the contract, etc.
				+ GV: What kind of multiplying infrastructure will TEI\-C use? Having a Docker image or something like that is part of the plan. Currently no concrete developments.
				+ KT: Oklahoma opportunity? HC will talk to his contact there next week
			* first release in the new infrastructure in a couple of weeks
		- TEI Journal
			* JW is remaining as the general editor for the meantime
			* Anne will be leaving as soon as she can pass on managing editor responsibilities. Virtual meeting with new managing editor team in August, in person meeting in Graz in September
			* LM: checks the list of attendees of Victoria
			* GV: how to proceed?: Who will ask the people?
			* KT sends asking for suggestions for TEI Journal managing editor suggestions to board and council list before 9 July.
			* KT to send reminder on 22 July
			* Everybody suggests people to KT before 1 August.
		- Hosts for 2020, 2021
			* 2020: Lincoln, Nebraska (US): unanimously accepted
			* 2021: Newcastle\-upon\-Tyne (UK): unanimously accepted
	+ New Business
		- Query from Pip, 25 June, regarding conference registration for Board Members
			* register as a normal participant
			* the board can decide how to reimburse
			* Pip: Additional question about “Is everybody able to advance the money?”
			* let’s discuss this via email, KT will resolve until Tuesday in one week
			* same for the Council Members, MS don’t know, whether they get reimbursed for registration
			* GV: is there a policy for reimbursement of registration fees of Board and Council Members?
			* KT: there is a [documentation](https://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php?title=Travel_Reimbursement_Procedures_for_Council_and_Board_Members) about travel reimbursement
				+ KT: we have reimbursed for travel, not for registration
			* Pip: remembers reimbursements of registration but asked board/council members to check, if they can cover by project/univ budgets


 
* **proposal  KT: Board and Council Members get the registration reimbursed. All voting members agree.**


 
* + 
	+ Query from Gimena, 25 June, regarding this program [https://www.thebritishacademy.ac.uk/programmes/writing\-workshops\-2019](https://www.thebritishacademy.ac.uk/programmes/writing-workshops-2019)
		- looking for more development of the TEI community
		- GV/KT unsure what to be discussed
		- \=\> no decision needed; please comment over email
	+ 90 day oXygen licence for TEI Workshop
		- KT sent email to oXygen today; copied to Board list
	+ Preparation of Graz Meetings\-\-Please save these dates and times. 
		- Meeting with the TEI Council (Monday afternoon, 16 September, 5\-6 pm CEST, joint dinner later in the evening, 7 p.m.)
		- in\-person Board Meeting (Friday Afternoon, 20th September 5:30pm\-9:30pm CEST)
		- Presentation at Members’ Meeting (Thursday, 19 September 1:30 pm CEST)
* Any Other Business
	+ Membership database. According to Hugh, new members who choose an optional fee are listed as donors and have to be added to the members database by hand. Inquiries should be forwarded to Hugh.


Date of next Meeting
====================


8 August 2019