---
layout: page.njk
title: "TEI Board Meeting,"
creator: TEI Board
---
# TEI Board Meeting,





Attendance: 



* Elena Pierazzo 
 (Chair)
* Lou Burnard
* James Cummings
* John Walsh
* Glen Worthey 
 (minutes)
* Paul D O’Shea 
 (for Social Media report)
* Arianna Ciula 
 (via Skype, first part of meeting)
* Martin Mueller 
 (second half of meeting)
* Marjorie Burghart 
 (via Skype, second half of meeting)


Meeting convenes at approximately 11:15 a.m.



 Social Media: strategy for the future
 
 Many thanks to Paul O’Shea \- JW: “Best decision the Board made over the past
 year”



- Ideas on how to expand for Lyon

- link to other TEI\-related social media accounts (e.g. Tapas on
 Twitter)

- Does Paul need more (or less) guidance from the Board?

- How to improve Tweet chat? \-\- advertise earlier; restrain topic (e.g. with
 open question, advertised in advance); participation is the main issue
 (e.g., Paul could use backup: to help spread the word, help keep the
 discussion going, etc.); include it in the greater Tweet chat community.
 Visualization and archiving have been useful, should be continued. LB asks
 how to make the discussion more substantive? PO: suggests that the
 conversation could perhaps be more substantive, but we can only learn how to
 do this by trying to do it.

- JW: suggests that we have twitter advertising of the DayOfDH to encourage
 more people in TEI to do so.





 Other outreach activities
 
 
- THATCamp (as part of TEI MM in Lyon). Note somewhat mixed reactions (to be
 expected, perhaps), but general agreement that we should do it. Note of
 organisational administration needed, rooms, possibly catering. (PO would
 volunteer to help organize, but with help \-\- e.g., with SIG convenors).
 Input sought from Lyon organizers (sought when Marjorie joined later). MB
 reports that organization would likely be rather difficult logistically for
 Conference organizers themselves; recommendation to involve recent THATCamp
 Lyon organizers to take on this organization, which she will do.

- MOOC: EP and MB are planning a TEI MOOC in French. In spite of some
 healthy skepticism, the general feeling that this particular MOOC proposal
 (e.g. for Francophone community, given MB’s and EP’s involvement and
 previous work, etc.) can be very beneficial. TEI support and endorsement for
 this MOOC agreed.

- TEI training in general: LB notes that there is a lot of training
 material, but that it’s not all up\-to\-date, not all easily findable (e.g. on
 the TEI\-C site) JC has blog posts for a reading course of the TEI Guidelines
 <http://blogs.it.ox.ac.uk/jamesc/category/selfstudy/> but
 these aren’t full training materials in themselves. JC: notes that most
 Oxford materials are available, but of course are only so useful without the
 talks and explanations given.

- Hackathon: Results of last year’s Hackathon are known, and seen to be
 positive. Is the DH meeting the best place to do this? LB notes that one of
 our motivations was to remind the DH community of TEI: general agreement
 that it did, in fact. So proposal to resubmit for Sydney (by 17 Feb 2015
 deadline). EP and JC will be the ones to propose (based on proposal for last
 year).

- DIscussion of “free membership” benefit for participants in TEI\-sponsored
 workshops. Note that some questions remain, that possibility for abuse
 exists (but seems unlikely). Feeling is that we should continue and fix this
 benefit \- e.g., JC suggests making it “opt\-in” rather than automatic, e.g.
 they get an email saying they need to do something (email, fill in a form,
 whatever) in order to get it. That way only ppl actually interested get
 it.

- Do we need more outreach activities? General feeling that we’re open to
 other ideas, but also that we should continue doing better what we’re
 already doing (e.g., Social media coordinator position).





 How to get things done: procedure for TEI Board activities
 
 
- Selection of new chair \- decision to wait until the new Board is installed
 before selection but might follow similar process as the TEI Technical
 Council: [http://wiki.tei\-c.org/index.php/TEI\-Council\-FAQ\#How\_is\_the\_TEI\_Technical\_Council\_Chair\_elected.3F](https://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/TEI-Council-FAQ#How_is_the_TEI_Technical_Council_Chair_elected.3F)

- Confirming that, of the four (Marjorie Burghart, Michelle Dalmau, Martin
 Mueller, and Pip Willcox) newly\-elected Board members, Pip Wilcox is elected
 for 1\-year term.

- Regular (every six weeks) conference call schedule: this has worked, but
 only partially. How to improve? With a Google calendar? LB and JC recommend
 Trello (or similar). We may need to improve transparency, public
 accountability. Calendar could be public and task lists public, but
 sensitive information private. JC offers to give Trello tutorial to Board if
 desired and will discuss if Council wishes to do something similar.

- LB: Board work is probably somewhat ill\-defined by nature; do we need to
 define it better?

- EP: we need to fix minutes procedures for conf. calls. The Board 
 always miss our commitment to produce publicly
 available minutes. Proposes to stop requiring minutes to be presented in
 TEI: e.g., Google doc, or whatever the new CMS for the website. LB: argues
 that one should drink one’s own poison and so use TEI. Need for consistent
 document types (for historical and management purposes). GW: Convinced by
 LB’s argument. JW: also convinced, thinks delays are usually to do with
 other problems of being busy, not with TEI requirement per se. JW would like
 to see all of these activities (meeting, minute\-publication, etc.) should
 simply be process\-managed. JC notes other barriers, e.g., posting minutes on
 the website requires intervention because of OpenCMS plugin problems.


Resolved: 




- every 6 weeks conf call (next call: Mon. 24 November, 4 p.m. London
 time)

- calendar

- Consider use of Trello

- better minutes management

- revise these procedures in 6 months, to see whether they’ve been
 successful


Chair of the Programme for MM 2015
Not able to name a
 Chair today, probably. NB: The Chair should be different from the local
 organiser. 








 TEI Conference 2016: Joint conference with JADH ?
 
 
- EP: Proposes the idea of joint conference with JADH, partly as outreach to
 far east TEI users.

- JW: Supportive, as long as returns to N.A.

- EP: Potentially in conjunction with JADH conference in September 2016 in
 Tokyo.

- MM: Ask the membership in some way. Figure out how much more expensive it
 is (for the general membership)

- JC: Consider EU / NA / Other\-Place cycle?

- EP: Possibly.

- Local organisers would likely be Kiyonori Nagasaki and Chuck Muller (Tokyo
 U.)

- Member meeting procedures documentation: [http://www.tei\-c.org/Board/bw09\.xml](/Board/bw09.xml)





 Budget
 
 
- Finance for the Conference: discussions of how
 to improve

- Investments: JU’s proposal to invest 100K (or 50K, to
 be cautious) in Vanguard funds. MM suggests that we ought not to expect 10%
 per year, although is generally in favor of the idea. JC is in favor of idea
 generally, with caveat that we may want to be cautious about ethical types
 of investment. General agreement that we ought to take this in
 consideration. EP points out that we haven’t lost money for many years
 (basically since JU took over as Treasurer). Resolved: To take the current
 $37K CD, add to it for a balance of $100K, to invest as JU
 recommends.

- Projects: 

	
	- TAPAS support: See Julia Flanders’s report.
	 Requesting $15\-20K this year (to support .5 FTE research assistant).
	 EP proposes continuing current level of $10K support for one more
	 year, filling our tentative commitment of last year on the one hand,
	 and the still\-early stage of work on the other. Notes that the TAPAS
	 workshop at current conference was the first to sell out, adding to
	 other anecdotal evidence (cited by several) that this service is
	 useful and desired by the community. Question remains as to what
	 sorts of benchmarks we may want to request from TAPAS. These are to
	 be determined jointly (by Board and by TAPAS), but to be conveyed by
	 TEI rep on TAPAS Adivsory Board (currently JC). MM would like to ask
	 for “measurable progress” at the very least. Resolved: to keep level
	 of support for 2015 the same as for current year, while asking for
	 such “measurable progress” benchmarks for next year.
	
	- Journal: JW requests same $2K for copy
	 editing as in previous years (in spite of additional work coming
	 from the conference issue of Rome meeting). Approved
	 unanimously.
	
	- Community: A number of SIGs have requested
	 funding to meet. EP reminds us that activities shouldn’t
	 automatically get funding, but rather they should make funding
	 proposals. JC notes that some groups (e.g., Object Description WG)
	 are actually Working Groups set up by the Council, and thus more
	 clearly deserving of funding.

- Other? Attempting to get a non\-Oxford supported
 replacement for Roma. Council created a draft feature specification for such
 a thing \-\- but amounts vary widely. JW recommends avoiding the “grad student
 research assistant” approach, and focusing on private contractors (or JC
 recommends community members with a vested long\-term interest in such
 development). EP wants a more realistic and concrete scope and estimate. JC
 will have Council tidy up the current scoping document and submit to Board
 for consideration. EP’s larger question: what’s the maximum amount of money
 can we comfortably commit to spending on community\-proposed (SIG and other)
 efforts? Very tentative figures discussed (and all dismissed as somewhat
 unknown and highly dependent on unknowns). Final “ceiling” amount
 unresolved.





 Website/Webmaster
 
 
- David Sewell has asked EP to find a webmaster the soonest possible. How
 does this transition relate (or does it relate) to the migration of the
 website?

- General agreement that it would be good for the next CMS to be identified
 before securing a replacement for David, but this seems unlikely.

- JC: at least 3 aspects in this: setting up a new server, design of new
 site, migration of current site. JW suggests that we put this out as a call
 for bids (including circulating among TEI community).

- EP notes that we made this same decision last year, but never implemented
 it (i.e., never wrote the specification). LB volunteers to work on that
 (with David’s input \-\- which, he had already given previously; notes are
 someplace). LB agrees to take lead of this effort, gather a team, work on
 the specification.

- JC notes that Kevin Hawkins is current assistant webmaster; can we ask him
 to step into David’s role? Agreed that this is the preferred approach \-\- and
 to ask Kevin whether we can offer compensation for this work. EP will
 contact Kevin with this request. 
 DONE. KH has accepted. And
 will get support to go to Lyon as compensation.





 Council meetings
 
 
- JC noted that there had been some developments on the suggestion of having
 a Technical Council meeting in Estonia;

- Also EP has approached Manuel Portela to host a future Council Meeting; he
 has agreed to consider. JC will approach Portela to discuss.

- JC notes that Council supports general model of having meetings in some
 place where there is some TEI experience (even if limited), and then
 co\-locating a workshop or small conference.

- Estonian contacts are already well established, and it does seem that
 there may be a small existing TEI community there. Regardless it has
 outreach benefits. JC: No current need to have an open call for Council
 hosting venues (since locations have been chosen by consensus for most
 recent years); if ever there is not a clear candidate, then a call could be
 issued.





 Future line of development for membership
 
 
- EP notes that one role of the Board is to expand membership. We should
 consider all current categories, and decide which are most fruitful avenues
 for expansion.
 
	
	- individual. The approach of funding membership to attendees of
	 TEI\-sponsored workshops seems to have been successful, and should be
	 continued \-\- BUT the practice needs to be clarified. Do we give free
	 membership for Conference attendees? Consensus that this is \*not\*
	 the case, but rather free membership goes only to first\-time
	 trainees (where event is advertised via members website). EP will
	 ask JU to send announcement to membership, and to put this
	 clarification on the website).
	
	- institutional. Brainstorming: Do we seek particular institutions
	 to be part of the TEI? Free memberships for a year? What categories?
	 Strategies? etc. Free membership for testing TEI\-Simple. Main
	 purpose is to expand membership base (not necessarily generate more
	 income). JW suggests that TAPAS could be a real membership benefit
	 for e.g. small and mid\-range libraries / faculty departments without
	 technical means to host TEI. Clarification that TAPAS is available
	 to all individuals at a member institution; JW suggests membership
	 drive touting TAPAS members. categories (libraries, research
	 institutions)
	
	- countries/areas: East Europe, Asia, South America

- Discussion: what should be the focus of a “membership drive”? Underserved
 communities? Linguistic and geographic diversity? Focus on the community
 where a Members’ Meeting was held? General agreement that personal
 approaches (through known community members) are preferable.

- We have a role of Membership Secretary on the Board (currently Arianna
 Ciula); when new Board is installed, a new Membership Secretary will be
 named, and should be charged with this sort of membership drive.





Internationalisation:
 
 
- JC presents question on behalf of Council:
 
	
	- Should we continue to support so many languages (esp. in element,
	 attr, class, etc. descriptions)? \-\-. In past, these have been
	 “languages of convenience” (e.g., depending on who was available to
	 do translation) \- but should we be more strategic in choice of
	 language? Note that some translations are vastly out of date.
	 (Translation dates are tracked at the element level, so this
	 freshness is visible.)
	
	- Should we prioritize translation into other “less obvious” (but more populous)
	 languages
	 
		
		- eg Arabic, Hindi, Hebrew?
	
	- How can the Board best support the community of
	 translators?

- Clarification by LB that the process is already reasonably well\-automated
 (by the Council), but is not well\-managed. Not a good use of the Council’s
 time to be nagging translators; but JC notes that main question from Council
 is how high a priority is it, how much time should Council be spending on
 it?

- EP: Should we approach language bureaus (charged with promoting the use of
 their language), after the open call has been made?

- JW suggests that volunteer translators from the language communities that
 will benefit from such translations. GW notes possibility of Global Outlook
 :: Digital Humanities, which makes just such an assumption; MB suggests
 seeking a translation coordinator.

- General agreement that a social infrastructure (in addition to marketing
 and acknowledgment of work) is what’s most needed. EP suggests, e.g., that
 we can engage PO to highlight translators or coordinators in social
 media.

- Consensus that we don’t necessarily need a coordinator at the moment; best
 approach is to set up workflow and procedures, then publicize it and see how
 it goes. If Council decides that the process does need a “translation czar”,
 then we can revisit. (EP recalls that earliest translation efforts were
 supported financially by ALLC, and did make use of a coordinator, a role
 filled by Sebastian at the time.)





EP thanks the Board for long service.


Meeting adjourns at 5:10 p.m.





