---
layout: page.njk
title: "TEI Board Meeting (teleconference) 2012-04-26, 1300-1400 GMT"
---
# TEI Board Meeting (teleconference) 2012-04-26, 1300-1400 GMT





 Agenda circulated on TEI\-Board email list:
 
  Agenda:
 \> 
 \> I. Context and amendments:
 \> 
 \> TEI is at a crossroads, with some major decisions to make about its
 \> future. We can't make all of those decisions in an hour, because we
 \> can't have all the discussion we need to have in an hour.
 \> 
 \> At the same time, there are some items we really need to vote on and
 \> move forward. I've proposed some of those items as a consent agenda,
 \> below. A consent agenda is a group of questions that are voted on as a
 \> block. Usually, that is because one expects they will all be approved.
 \> If you don't think we should approve an item on my consent agenda list,
 \> call it out, and it will be deferred to asynchronous discussion.
 \> 
 \> \* Any items to be added to the general agenda for this hour?
 \> 
 \> If not, I will propose the consent agenda:
 \> 
 \> II. Consent Agenda:
 \> 
 \> 1\. Elect Dot Porter Treasurer
 \> 2\. Appoint Sarah Wells immediate past Treasurer, for a two\-year term
 \> 3\. Agree to continue charging membership and subscription fees
 \> 4\. Agree to renew the TEI trademark
 \> 
 \> III. Conference update (if Laura can provide one)
 \> 
 \> IV. Existential Board Issues:
 \> 
 \> The TEI Council is doing great work, as described in James's report.
 \> Lots of very exciting stuff that has direct impact for the TEI
 \> community. The Board should serve the Council, and develop its own
 \> programs only because those are something that the Council doesn't want
 \> to do but needs done. But one of the Board's main responsibilities has
 \> been to figure out how to fund the activities of the Council. I think we
 \> should focus on that mission, as much as possible.
 \> 
 \> Martin is right that "we need to make the TEI cheaper." To that end, the
 \> Board probably needs to shrink. To attract continuing membership and
 \> subscription, TEI needs to provide more value directly to those who pay
 \> for memberships or subscriptions. We have some value on offer that isn't
 \> sufficiently marketed or promoted by the TEI (e.g., AccessTEI). We have
 \> other value we might organize to offer if TEI experts were willing to
 \> make preferential scheduling or pricing available to TEI members,
 \> through the consortium. If we want them to do that, we should provide
 \> billing services, or other service of value to the expert. We might also
 \> decide to allow subscribers to elect one Council member.
 \> 
 \> V. Website, TEI manual:
 \> 
 \> Sophie would like to revisit these projects. I am keenly aware what a
 \> lot of work is represented in the In much of TEI itself, the work is
 \> done by volunteers. TEI is still figuring out its infrastructure. Do we
 \> have the volunteer labor to accomplish these two projects? If not, can
 \> we prioritize them and assign cash resources to them?
 \> 
 \> VI. Future Business:
 \> 
 \> Should the TEI\-Board email list archive be publicly accessible, as the
 \> TEI Council's list archive is? Lou proposes:
 \> 
 \> a) the TEI Board minutes and discussion papers should be publicly
 \> available within 30 days of their publication to the Board
 \> 
 \> b) consortium members and subscribers should on their request be added
 \> to the email circulation list for the Board (but with read only access)
 
 ]]\>
 


 Those in attendance:
 
 * John Unsworth, Chair (JU)
* Marjorie Burghart (MB)
* Lou Burnard (LB)
* Arianna Ciula (AC)
* Marin Dacos (MD)
* Sophie David (SD)
* Laura Mandell (LM)
* Martin Mueller (MM)
* Elena Peirazzo (EP)
* Dot Porter (DP)
* David Sewell (DS)
* John Walsh (JW)
* Sarah Wells (SW)
* Martin Wynne (MW)




 Meeting procedures \& general procedures for conducting of business
 
  As meeting got underway, MD requested some sort of open notepad, Google Doc, etc.
 for
 communication during teleconferences. Other alternatives or supplements to teleconferences
 and face\-to\-face meetings were briefly discussed. 




 Discussion of Agenda
 
 * JU asked for any additions to the agenda.
* DS brought up issues of elections, deferred to future business.
* Discussion of communications processes (Google Docs, chat rooms, etc.) deferred to
 future business.




 Consent Agenda 
 
 * JU reviewed revised consent agenda and opened it up to discussion.
* MM moved to adopt revised consent agenda.
* JW seconded.
* \[??] asked for clarification of the need for and role of the of the position of
 "immediate past Treasurer." JU and SW explained that the position was suggested to
 facilitate the transition to a new Treasurer and necessary to continue to conduct
 some
 necessary business, primarily bank transactions.
* Discussion of “4\. Agree to renew the TEI trademark.” Some board members questioned
 the cost and the fact the trademark was protected only in the U.S.
* At JU's suggestion, trademark question was removed from the consent agenda: 
  Revised Consent Agenda
 \>
 \> 1\. Elect Dot Porter Treasurer
 \> 2\. Appoint Sarah Wells immediate past Treasurer, for a two\-year term
 \> 3\. Agree to continue charging membership and subscription fees
 \> agenda and deferred to future business.
 ]]\>
* JW moved to adopt the revised consent agenda.
* AC seconded.
* Unanimous vote to approve revised consent agenda.




 Conftool
 
 * Question from Elena on status of conftool for TEI conference.
* Action Item \[JU]: Check on status of conftool.




 Item IV. Existential Board Issues:
 
 General discussion of the issues detailed in the agenda. Issues raised in the discussion
 included: 


* JU clarified that “shrinking” the Board did not necessarily mean reducing its
 numbers but perhaps reducing its financial footprint.
* Discussion of ways to reduce costs, primarily travel.
* Discussion of whether or not to continue face\-to\-face meetings. EP, JW and others
 \[??] felt face\-to\-face meetings were important, both to conduct business and to
 interace with community at conference (since Board face\-to\-face meetings are
 traditional held at the conference).
* Discussion of ways to reduce travel costs: no face\-to\-face meetings; Board members
 pay their own way; Board members pay their own way, if they can receive funding from
 their institutions; travel costs are capped, with Board members expected to cover
 some
 of their own travel costs.
* In context of cost of the Board, MM raised issues of revenues, and suggested new
 funding models that would reduce institutional membership fees and hopefully result
 in
 more members paying lower fees.
* Outreach \& Promotion
	+ LB raised importance of Board's role conducting and coordinating outreach
	 activities. Many others agreed this was an important role for the Board.
	+ Discussion of other groups that may be able to and/or currently do contribute
	 to outreach and promotion: a sub\-group of Council, SIGs, partners, member
	 institutions/projects/individuals.
	+ JU summarized discussion to this point:
		- general agreement that it is useful to meet face\-to\-face
		- important activities of the Board include:
		- support of council
		- general administrative functions
		- organizing conference
		- supervising elections
		- maintenance of web site
		- overseeing membership
		- organizing outreach
* Discussion whether these activities, including conducting and coordinating
 outreach could be done with fewer elected Board members. Those who commented on this
 issue felt that the activities of the Board could be conducted with fewer elected
 members. The motivations mentioned for a smaller Board were efficiency and cost
 savings.
* Action Item \[JU]: Circulate notes on existential issues discussed and
 possible ways to move forward on some of these issues.




 Conference update
 
 * Summary of current state preparations by LM.
* Discussion of hotels, excursion.
* Action Item \[LM]: Conference website to be ready in two weeks.
* Estimate of about 150\-200 attendees based on past attendance.





