---
layout: page.njk
title: "TEI-C Board Meeting 2020-06-18"
---
# TEI-C Board Meeting 2020-06-18
via Zoom


Attending
=========


* Kathryn Tomasek (KT)
* Gimena del Rio Riande (GRR)
* Christiane Fritze (CF)
* Hugh Cayless (HC)
* James Cummings (JC)
* Luis Meneses (LM)
* Martina Scholger (MS)
* Pip Willcox (PW)


Action items
============


* see Asana


Agenda
======


* Meeting Procedures and Other Announcements
* Updates
	+ Strategic budget allocations (KT)
		- Conference Subvention
	+ TAPAS Support / TEI Repository (KT)
	+ General guidelines or policy on when the TEI\-C provides letters of support
	(PW)
	+ Finding a Webmaster
	+ Website: structure and content (HC)
	+ Internationalization strategy (HC, GRR)
* Any Other Business
	+ <https://grobid.readthedocs.io/en/latest/Introduction/> (GRR)
	+ wrap\-up of the membership campaign


Minutes
=======


* Meeting Procedures and Other Announcements
	+ JC, GRR, KT approve [last meeting's minutes](https://tei-c.org/board/board-tei-c-board-meeting-2020-05-21/)


* Strategic budget allocations (KT)
	+ Risks at spending the money this way:
		- potential for fraud through buying cheaper tickets than applied
		for
		- Solution: we could make arrangements (hotel, flights) for the people
		rather than giving them the money directly
		- Question: where is the balance between motivating people and
		misuse
		- PW: add travel insurance, to allay some risk to TEI (for
		cancellation) and offer cover to the bursary holder for health
		- Connect financial support to a mentoring event to ensure bursary
		holders are welcomed into the community: add this point to the
		draft
		- **KT to add this points into the call**
	+ From last meeting: JC wonders if we should review the amount of the
	subvention to conference hosts \- this $7K hasn’t changed for years I think?
	(postponed from last month’s agenda)
		- depending from the institution’s support how much is needed
		- PW: open the conversation to the candidates. leave out of the call
		for candidates
			* reason: be more open be more welcoming, making it negotiable
		- **PW: drafts a wording for Hugh and Gimena to put for the members
		website**


* TAPAS Support / TEI Repository (KT)
	+ KT forwarded the conversation with Julia Flanders
	+ GRR: we need repositories for archiving and for sharing, repositories should
	be open. There are other options like Github\-Zenodo (which work very well
	together), Textgrid repository or humanum/isidore. Zenodo and HumaNum are
	open and free. We need to start a conversation with Julia about these
	things. A repository that does not allow anyone to store their data does not
	make sense: these benefits should be offered to the whole TEI community and
	not only to TEI Members in support of a more inclusive community.
	+ TAPAS is no longer as necessary as it was when TAPAS was founded. The
	community has gone elsewhere. (JC)
	+ JC asks a question about the number of users in TAPAS as opposed to other
	repositories, such as github. c.f. <https://twitter.com/dr_pda/status/1264704189843640320> showing a
	large number of TEI files in GitHub. Do we get membership benefits to the
	worth of the amount donated from TAPAS. TAPAS has not become the TEI
	community hub.
	+ **KT and PW writing an answer**
	+ from chat:
		- Tweet mentioning result of github search: <https://twitter.com/dr_pda/status/1264704189843640320>
		- From Luis Meneses to Everyone: (11:58 AM  <https://teihub.netlify.app>
		This is a side project which searches all public GitHub repositories
		for files containing the string teiHeader, as a way of discovering
		TEI\-encoded documents.
		- From James Cummings to Everyone: (12:00 PM)  That seems a lot less
		documents than there really are? I mean the
		textcreationpartnership.org itself has 30K. ;\-) (Oh, I see it only
		gets 1000 at a time)
		- From Hugh Cayless, Ph.D. to Everyone: (12:01 PM)  Papyri.info has
		many thousands…
		- From James Cummings to Everyone: (12:01 PM)  So the greater than 1M
		seems reasonable.
		- From Hugh Cayless, Ph.D. to Everyone: (12:04 PM)  (Just checking, we
		have somewhere around a quarter\-million)
		- From James Cummings to Everyone: (12:04 PM) **Maybe we should talk
		to Philip Allfrey (behind TEI Hub) about getting some better
		list.**
* General guidelines or policy on when the TEI\-C provides letters of support (PW)
	+ yes, we have an interest. (Letter of Nicholas)
	+ Important to have guidelines when to support and when to drop
* Finding a Webmaster
	+ Has gone through IG. The call for Communications Manager was sent on June
	8th 2020 to the TEI\-L by KT
* Website: structure and content (HC)
	+ table to next meeting
* Internationalization strategy (HC, GRR)
	+ table to next meeting
* Any Other Business
	+ <https://grobid.readthedocs.io/en/latest/Introduction/> (GRR)
		- This is related to Gimena’s work on journal publishing and her
		interest in promoting TEI in journal publishing.
	+ KT and GRR will join the regular monthly meeting of the TEI Journal editors
	in July and report back next month at the Board’s July meeting


Date of next Meetings
=====================


Every month on
the Third Thursday
* Jul 16, 2020 11:00 AM Eastern Time (US and Canada)
* Aug 20, 2020 11:00 AM Eastern Time (US and Canada)
* Sep 17, 2020 11:00 AM Eastern Time (US and Canada)
* Oct 15, 2020 11:00 AM Eastern Time (US and Canada)
* Nov 19, 2020 11:00 AM Eastern Time (US and Canada)
* Dec 17, 2020 11:00 AM Eastern Time (US and Canada)


\-\-\-\-\-
* Jan 21, 2021 11:00 AM Eastern Time (US and Canada)
