---
layout: page.njk
title: "TEI Board Conference Call: 8 October 2009"
---
# TEI Board Conference Call: 8 October 2009









Chris Ruotolo


Certification of the meeting* The meeting was certified at \~14:00 UTC, with the following members present:
 Julia Flanders (JF), Daniel O'Donnell (DO), Veronika Lux (VL), Daniel Pitti
 (DP), Laurent Romary (LR), Chris Ruotolo (CR), Susan Schreibman (SS), and Christian
 Wittern
 (CW).
Approval of minutes* The minutes were approved.
Election issues* How many Council slots should be filled in this election? During the last conference
 call, it was suggested that we could
 elect five people, and then appoint one more for a special one\-year appointment, which
 would then give us an equal number
 of vacant slots each year, instead of the current 6\-4 imbalance. Peter Boot was
 approached as the appointee, but he wasn't
 interested. Consensus is to do business as usual in this election, and use the upcoming
 face\-to\-face meeting
 to discuss changes to the Council, including possible extension of the elected term
 to three years. Next year will be a 
 transitional period. So, six members of the Council will be selected in the upcoming
 election. Voting will open sometime next
 week.
Affiliations* How should the TEI respond when other organizations approach us about affiliation
 (as opposed to sponsorship or membership)? 
 Recent examples include Balisage, which has offered TEI members a conference discount
 in exchange for promotion via the website and the email list, 
 and InfoTerm, a UNESCO\-founded organization with a strong presence in the international
 community that has sought affiliation with the TEI. 
 These requests are popping up more frequently, and could be politically useful for
 us. There are other groups
 that seem like natural affiliates for the TEI (e.g. CIDOC). Is there a standard affiliation
 status or mechanism? What would be the criteria to approve such a request? The work
 of the affiliate organization should be 
 related to our work, and should be non\-commercial. The potential negative impact
 of affiliation is low. What are the benefits \-\- just mutual publicity, or would
 other activities be possible? Extending membership benefits to affiliates probably
 isn't a good idea, and could be awkward financially.
 Affiliation could be nothing more than a goodwill arrangement \-\- a formal public acknowledgement
 of intent to collaborate. It's not a strong
 benefit, but that's no reason not to go ahead. Establishing affiliate relationships
 could
 help increase the TEI's visibility outside of our own organization. We should establish
 a way to handle these requests as 
 they come in. DO will draft a proposal for responding to affiliation requests. In
 the meantime, Board members should consider
 what other organizations we might want to affiliate with.
Chair's Report (DO)* The credit card store is up and running. There were some minor bugs early on, but
 these have been resolved. 
 Handling the bookkeeping is an ongoing isssue. Currently there are 55\-60 registrants
 for conference and members meeting, and $2,500\-$3,000 in
 registration fees have come in.
 One pre\-conference workshop will likely be dropped due to low registration. 
 



 The TEI Tite bid process has gone to a third stage. Close analysis of the vendor
 proposals by the top two finalists revealed some weaknesses,
 so the vendors were asked to answer some additional questions. The process should
 be wrapped up soon, and a final vendor recommendation will be made.
 DO noted that more encoding projects seem to be interested in the TEI Tite benefit,
 including some (like the Library of Congress newspaper project) that
 are big enough to negotiate their own contracts.
Conference Report (DO)* The conference has met its sponsorship goal. The early registration period ends this
 Saturday. 
 The pre\-conference workshop on publishing has 10\-15 registrants, and will go forward;
 the Philologic workshop has no registrants and
 will be cancelled. The Ontologies SIG is holding its own pre\-conference workshop,
 and will have enough registrants to proceed.
 Although overall conference registration is slightly lower than normal, in general
 things are going well. Almost everyone
 who has registered has identified as a member or a subscriber, although this is not
 accurate in every case. In the future, we should follow up
 on this self\-reporting and check registrants against the membership database. This
 check might reveal people who think they're members or subscribers
 but are not. DP and VL have talked about adding a membership identifier to the database
 that will make it easier to keep track of people. The credit
 card system also assigns its own identifiers; maybe the two systems can be integrated
 somehow.
Web Committee Report (CR)* CR and Shayne Brandon met with David Sewell to talk about the Council's proposal for
 Guidelines versioning through the TEI Vault. Shayne will
 grant David the necessary permissions on the TEI server to set up the Guidelines versioning.
 As for migrating legacy materials into the new Vault,
 Lou Burnard has volunteered to help with this work. A rough plan for the migration
 has been drafted.




