---
layout: page.njk
title: "TEI-C Board Meeting 2020-08-20"
---
# TEI-C Board Meeting 2020-08-20
via zoom


Attending
=========


* Kathryn Tomasek (KT)
* Gimena del Rio Riande (GRR)
* James Cummings (JC)
* Hugh Cayless (HC)
* Luis Meneses (LM)
* Martina Scholger (MS)
* Pip Willcox (PW)


Apologies
=========


* Christiane Fritze (CF)


Action items from last meetings
===============================


* see Asana


Agenda
======


* Meeting Procedures and Other Announcements
* Internationalisation
	+ ISO subcommittee TC 37/SC 3 invitation subcommittee (via Detlef Reineke on
	behalf of Laurent Romary)


Minutes
=======


* Meeting Procedures and Other Announcements
	+ Approval of [last meeting minutes](https://tei-c.org/board/tei-c-board-meeting-2020-07-16): GRR, JC, KT and PW approved
* Internationalisation
	+ ISO subcommittee TC 37/SC 3 invitation (via Detlef Reineke on behalf of Laurent Romary)
		- Laurent Romary (LR) joins us to give us some general background information
			* TC 37: committee dedicated to language and terminology (chair: LR)
			* e.g.: ISO 639 series is maintained in ISO/TC 37/SC 2
			* ISO/TC 37/SC 4 and TEI have an agreement concerning joint publications (cf. feature structures: ISO 24610:2006\)
			* ISO standards that include significant amount of TEI, we are allowed to reproduce the relevant content standard in the Guidelines
			* ISO/TC 37/SC 3 about terminology resources (chair: Detlef Reineke)
			* ISO standard 30042 (TBX) is a kind of descendant from the old TEI terminology chapter
			* ISO/TC 37/SC 5 deals with translation and interpretation
		- Discussion:
			* JC: What should we be doing? How much work?
				+ LR: Name liaisons and maintain communication; Not
				necessarily burdensome.
			* MS: Are there regular meetings?
				+ LR: Annually, but Covid\-19; June 2021 Brussels
			* HC: What is time commitment? Expense?
				+ LR: limited time commitment unless something
				specific happens related to TEI
				+ No cost for liaison; most meetings are virtual; next planned ISO TC 37 general meeting in Brussels in June 2021
				+ HC: Would need to have a framework for sending
				liaisons to meetings.
		- Suggestion for next steps:
			* Follow up with ISO/TC 37/SC 3
				+ LR will follow up with Detlef Reineke and find out
				about next steps
				+ MS will put this on the agenda for the next Council
				meeting; asks whether LR is available.
			* Reconnect with ISO/TC 37/SC
				+ **Action:** JC to help KT with message to Lou
				Burnard; ask whether he still receives missives from
				SC4, how frequently, might he be willing to suggest
				someone to take on this role
			* Follow along and plan strategy going forward
			* Do not hesitate to ask Laurent about anything that arises
			with regard to ISO
	+ Since Laurent is familiar with GROBID, GRR has an opportunity to ask for
	information
		- GROBID uses TEI
		- cascade of CRF models
		- on GitHub, open source
		- extracts everything it can from full papers (began with extracting
		metadata)
		- effective for legacy pdf documents
		- GRR thinks it’s a good idea for JTEI
		- LR is happy to come back and talk to us more when we have specific
		questions.
* Communications Manager
	+ KT has not had time to work on this. Will do so this following week.
* Update from Kathryn on behalf of nominations and elections committee
	+ we had a total of 35 nominations:
		- **7** for 3 open positions on the Board, no duplicates;
		- 27 for 5 positions on the Council, with 20 multiple nominations, for
		a total of **14** nominees;
		- and **1** for TAPAS Advisory Board
			* the person who has been nominated has agreed to stand for
	+ Of the seven nominations for three open positions on the Board, one has
	accepted, four have refused, and two have yet to respond. I'm concerned
	about the slate, for obvious reasons.
	+ Of the fourteen people nominated for five positions on the Council, nine
	have agreed to stand, and five have refused. I think we have a robust slate
	for Council.
	+ The nominated person has agreed to stand for TAPAS Advisory.
	+ Start the slate beginning of September
	+ Discussion:
		- PW: Strategies for succession planning. There is a trend over several years towards fewer people standing for election, particularly for the Board. This year’s experience is part of the trend, not solely a feature of the current pandemic. Provocation: has TEI\-C run its course? (JC: I don’t think this is really the case, given the amount of work the Council continues to do.) That being the case, how can we reverse the trend and encourage more people from more parts of the world to accept nominations to stand?
		- HC: Perhaps the dearth of candidates is a sign of satisfaction with
		how things are rather than that the organization is moribund.
		- JC: Notes in other years we’ve had far too many nominations. (N.B. Not all nominations turn into candidates.) But also we should seek a diversity of candidates.
* AoB
	+ - MS: Reminds us that it’s time to come to a decision about the applicants to
		the Rahtz Prize.
		- KT: We need to set a date for the Annual Business meeting to be held
		virtually. And how to manage registration for a passworded Zoom. JC/HC:
		Which should be openly available registration to the community as a
		whole.
	+ KT Action: to handle over email


Date of next Meetings
=====================


Every month on the Third Thursday
* Sep 17, 2020 11:00 AM Eastern Time (US and Canada)
* Oct 15, 2020 11:00 AM Eastern Time (US and Canada)
* Nov 19, 2020 11:00 AM Eastern Time (US and Canada)
* Dec 17, 2020 11:00 AM Eastern Time (US and Canada)


\-\-\-\-\-
* Jan 21, 2021 11:00 AM Eastern Time (US and Canada)
