---
layout: page.njk
title: "TEI Board Conference Call: 20 February 2008"
---
# TEI Board Conference Call: 20 February 2008







TEI Board Conference Call: 20 Feb 2008

Chris Ruotolo


Certification of the meeting* The meeting was certified at 10:05 EST, with the following members present:
 James Cummings (JC) for Sebastian Rahtz (SR), Julia Flanders (JF), Bertrand
 Gaiffe (BG), John Lavagnino (JL), Daniel O'Donnell (DO), Daniel Pitti (DP),
 Laurent Romary (LR), and Chris Ruotolo (CR). Susan
 Schreibman (SS), and Ray Siemens (RS) sent their regrets.
Approval of agenda* The meeting agenda was approved.
Review of minutes from previous meeting* The minutes from the meeting in College Park were approved.
New business* Archiving official TEI materials+ We need to set up a virtual storage space for official TEI documents.
	 Most of these are already digital; paper documents should be scanned
	 whenever possible. CR will look into setting up a password protected
	 area of OpenCMS for storing these documents, using the same
	 organization/finding mechanism that will be used to provide access
	 to the former Vault materials. Currently, we have no central storage
	 location for documents we need to retain in paper (e.g. legal
	 contracts). DO, DP, and CR will form an office issues working group
	 to discuss how to deal with this. Will provide an update by the next
	 conference call.
	News server+ There's been no work on adding a news feed to the front page of the
	 website. It's on CR's list of web tasks for the next quarter.
	Future of the SIGs+ Making better use of the energy and enthusiasm of the SIGs is a major
	 goal for the coming year. We need to figure out how to provide the
	 resources necessary to help the SIGs be productive year\-round. We
	 currently supply web space and wiki space to facilitate their work,
	 but typically the SIGs don't accomplish much between the annual
	 meetings, despite the presence of active and interested people. How
	 can we encourage them to be more active? Should we approach them and
	 ask them what they need? Are there specific action items that can be
	 assigned to them? 
	
	
	There are two basic kinds of SIGs: those that focus on encoding
	 issues, and those that emphasize community building. Both kinds
	 could use some help focusing their output in a way that's useful to
	 the TEI. Having a dedicated liaison to keep in touch and funnel
	 ideas back to the Council would help keep them motivated. Other
	 possibilities include having the SIG chairs meet quarterly to
	 discuss progress on goals, or having a SIG chair sit in on Council
	 meetings.
	
	
	LR, SS, and DO will look into models for getting Council members
	 involved in the SIGs, and drawing more fully on the SIG chairs. They
	 will report back at the next quarterly meeting.
	
	
	The SIGs keep people engaged in areas that are important to them,
	 and are a useful way of keeping our membership active. This will be
	 an experimental year for the SIGs.
Committee Reports* Council report (LR)+ The Council held a conference call as soon as LR was nominated. The
	 next face\-to\-face meeting will take place in Galway, 2\-4 April.
	 Recent Council discussion has focused on the following areas \[see
	 also LR's email to the Board list, 20 Feb 2008]:
	
	
	
	Outreach: the TEI needs to maintain awareness of big national and
	 European encoding projects. We need to promote a better awareness of
	 ODD and show how it can be adapted for specialized encoding
	 projects. We should provide basic information and tutorials that
	 help newcomers develop a better understanding of the TEI
	 infrastructure. 
	
	
	
	Guidelines maintenance: Council is proposing a release of the
	 Guidelines every six months, with a pre\-release announced before the
	 MM. The release is not just an update of the Guidelines, but a
	 compilation of packages, schemas, and software. Council wants to
	 streamline the editorial workflow for the Guidelines, keeping track
	 of everything on SourceForge. There needs to be some "air traffic
	 control" for identifying issues raised on TEI\-L that affect the
	 Guidelines and reporting those to the Council immediately. Even
	 without designated editors, we need to keep the notion of an
	 editorial support group. To that end, Oxford has submitted a
	 proposal to provide editorial support for the Guidelines, drawing on
	 the expertise at the institution as a whole rather than assigning
	 responsibilites to any one person. Some of the work involved would
	 count toward Oxford's in\-kind host contribution; they are asking for
	 some money for work beyond that amount.
	
	
	
	Mailing list: the reliability of the mailing list needs to be
	 improved. This has already been addressed at Virginia.
	Web services report (CR)+ Roma and the wiki have been moved from Oxford to the new server at
	 Virginia. Moving the remaining Oxford materials (especially the
	 Vault) over to Virginia will be the next priority, along with
	 setting up a news feed. CR will update the Board and Council lists
	 to reflect the recent organizational changes. The Virginia server
	 will move to a new box tomorrow; CR will notify the list of any
	 necessary downtime.
	
	
	CR and DP met with David Sewell to talk about communication between
	 the Council and the web services committee, and discussed the
	 possibility of having a Council rep (possibly DS) join the
	 committee.
	
	
	DP mentioned the need to package the development work on Roma so that
	 it can be updated more efficiently.
	Treasurer's report (DP)+ The Board unanimously approved opening an additional TEI bank account
	 for the Mellon funds, and adding CR as a co\-signer to the TEI
	 accounts.
	Finances and grants report (DO)+ The TEI has received 30K from Mellon to run a survey and call for
	 proposals from keyboarding vendors using TEI Tite. DO is the PI on
	 the grant, and discussion and planning is already underway. This has
	 raised a larger issue: should the TEI start hosting grants? Can the
	 TEI act as the payee? We will have to resolve this in the future, as
	 more grant opportunities come our way.
	Nomination committee report (SS)+ To be postponed until SS completes her move to Ireland.
	Members Meeting report (SS)+ The MM planning was slow getting started, but is now rolling. The
	 main problem is the cost, exacerbated by the weak dollar.
	 Fundraising is going to be more important than ever. The Board
	 should be thinking about people we can hit up for $300\-$400\.
	Kazan travel update (DO)+ Nothing has happened so far. DO will touch base with Matthew and Lou.
	Membership and recruitment report (RS) + Not much activity yet. RS would be happy to accept guidance form
	 others. He has mostly been working on the viral marketing study,
	 which should open some opportunities for recruitment.
Items for information/action* Status of membership (JF, BG)+ BG has just gotten access to database, and is still figuring out how
	 it works. To be held over until the next quarterly meeting for an
	 update: is membership staying the same, rising or falling? Are
	 people paying up? DO noted that Lethbridge is not listed as a
	 member.
	Printing (DO, SR)+ Nothing has happened yet. SR has generated a good PDF version of the
	 Guidelines, and feels he has taken it as far as he can. DO has been
	 in touch with the contact at OmniPress. JL and DO will work on
	 arranging the printing in the next quarter.
	Consortium hosting (DO) + DO won't pursue hosting and financial support from Lethbridge at this
	 time. We're already getting the membership payment from Lethbridge,
	 but haven't asked for in\-kind contribution yet.
	Business meeting changes and voting (DO) + At the last Members Meeting, there were complaints that the business
	 meeting was disappointing and anti\-climactic. At the 2008 MM, the
	 meeting will be moved to Friday morning, and will be followed by an
	 interesting keynote. The content of the meeting must be
	 intrinsically interesting, or people will just sleep in. There
	 should be plenary time at the end of the reports to talk about the
	 state of various outreach projects. The hope is to eliminate some of
	 the boring bits, including voting. CR is looking into the
	 possibility of an online voting system, so that the election can be
	 held in advance with the results announced at the meeting.
Other business* For future conference calls, committee reports should be circulated in
 advance over email.




