---
layout: page.njk
title: "Summary of TEI Training SIG Meeting"
---
# Summary of TEI Training SIG Meeting



### TEI Training SIG: Notes from Baltimore Meeting


 23 October 2004
 
 The group began by reviewing what had been decided last year in
 Nancy in terms of posting resources online that would help
 individuals and projects to learn about the TEI, including
 individual project practice, opportunities for training,
 examples of texts, etc. See last year's report [here](https://www.tei-c.org/activities/sig/education/summary-of-tei-training-sig-meeting-2/).

Susan Schreibman said that Adriaan van der Weel (who is compiling
 a bibliography of published texts relating to the TEI) had
 sent an email to the TEI list and got very few responses.
 Julia Flanders agreed that there may be few published texts.
 Susan mentioned that once two books which are currently in
 production are published, A Blackwell Companion to
 Digital Humanities and Electronic
 Textual Editing, there would be significantly
 more items to add to the bibliography. It was also mentioned
 that Peter Robinson is thinking of revising his
 Digitization of Primary Textual
 Sources, published by OUP (1993\). Additionally, the
 April 2004 volume of Literary and Linguistic Computing (vol.
 19 no.1\) and the 10th Year Anniversary issue of P3 published
 in Computers and the Humanities (vol. 33 no.
 1\-2\) are valuable resources.Susan showed those present the [page she compiled on TEI Training](https://www.tei-c.org/activities/sig/education/tei-training-short-courses/). Matthew
 Driscoll said he must have missed the email Susan posted
 asking for links â€” he said he would send her some
 information on courses he has given to be added to the page.
 Alan Morrison said that Oxford has done quite a bit of
 training and he would like to see internal training
 documentation produced for training the trainers. People
 felt that it was most useful to link to courses on the TEI
 site that are repeated, and to courses which have resources
 attached to them.There was a general discussion of Training Events. Alan Morrison
 suggested that the TEI might have a course they give
 regularly. Julia brought up there had been a number of
 courses given recently through individual institutions. She
 mentioned courses at Weaton and Berkeley, as well as the
 [Humanities Computing Summer Institute](http://web.uvic.ca/hrd/institute/) in
 Victoria organized by Ray Siemens (an annual event). Julia
 pointed out that she felt that training events targeted at a
 specific community or arising out of a particular
 opportunity seem to do very well.
 
 Matthew raised the idea of swat team for TEI training. There was
 a general discussion about this, and the group came back to
 the idea that a page would be compiled for the TEI site
 which lists trainers by region, specialty, etc.
 
 Julia also raised the idea that some individuals associated with
 the TEI might be willing to be grant consultants for
 projects submitting funding proposals. This list might be
 compiled like the Trainers list: by country, area of
 expertise, center attached to, etc. Their work would be pro
 bono. Julia agreed to put this list together.
 
 Julia suggested that we might want to consider renaming the SIG
 as its brief is much broader. She suggested TEI Education,
 which the group unanimously agreed with.
 
 Chris Rutolo agreed that she would make the commitment this year
 to put together the page on University courses. The group
 knew of several people who taught TEI\-based courses at the
 University level: Tone Merete Bruvik, Elena Pierazzo, Susan
 Schreibman, Edward Vanhoutte, John Walsh.
 
 Alan brought up that the TEI website needs to be better
 organized. Julia said that this was underway and that the
 pages we are producing could be used for the new site.
 
 Dolores Iorizzo suggested that dissemination which was a
 component of most grants, could include the project giving a
 workshop, which would have the benefit of training others in
 the same methodology.
 
 Jamie Spriggs and Scott Hamlin from Wheaton College (who could
 not attend the SIG meeting) agreed that they would compile a
 Documentation page. It was decided to create a page which
 links to project specific documentation rather than try to
 collect a samples page (as was agreed last year). Individual
 projects' documentation would probably include samples, and
 there were other SIGS which would find the documentation
 useful.
 
 Julia suggested that we might organize a 'challenge' on the TEI
 List for samples; the samples would be sent in by
 individuals which could be harvested onto a page. She added
 that this activity might not be part of this SIG's work.
 
 

 
 Present:
 
 * Tone Merete Bruvik, University of Bergen
* Matthew Driscoll, University of Copenhagen
* Julia Flanders, Brown University
* Dolores Iorizzo, Imperial College London
* Alan Morrison, Oxford University
* Christian\-Emil Ore, University of Oslo
* Chris Ruotolo, University of Virginia
* Susan Schreibman, University of Maryland




