---
layout: page.njk
title: "Overlap SIG Meeting Minutes"
creator: Dot Porter
---
# Overlap SIG Meeting Minutes




Overlapping Markup SIG (Fourteen in attendance)
 
 
 We first discussed some of the problems involved with overlapping
 markup. We agreed that the first thing we need to do is document the
 problems of existing approaches, of which there are many (both
 problems and approaches). Patrick Durusau volunteered to put together
 a web page, to be placed within the TEI website, outlining various
 existing solutions and briefly describe the general pros and cons to
 each approach. We would then like to solicit comments on these
 solutions from the TEI community in general, and ask community members
 which of these approaches might address problems to specific to their
 projects. This would give us an overview of the problems of
 overlapping markup, and will also give us an indication if an existing
 approach (or approaches) could be endorsed by TEI, or if we need to
 find a new approach (or approaches) that will suit the needs of the
 community. We hope that the work of the SIG will help to inform the
 TEI's existing Stand\-Off Markup working group.


 In discussing the problems of overlapping markup, it was agreed that
 the most commen problem is that of the markup of text (paragraphs,
 sentences, chapters, words) vs. the markup of the physical object
 (page, page or folio line, quire). It was agreed that a good approach
 would be to begin trying to find a standardized approach to dealing
 with the text/object conflicts, and that approach should be able to be
 put towards other overlapping markup problems.


 David Durand, member of the Stand\-Off Markup Workgroup (which is
 currently charged with issues of overlapping markup), has agreed to
 create a listserv/email list for all those interested in overlapping
 markup. The initial group will include all those in attendence at the
 SIG.


David Durand explained the current approach TEI is taking to
 overlapping markup, which involves separate XML files for each
 hierarchy, using Xpointer and Xinclude to map between files. It was
 agreed generally that this approach may be too dependent on heavy
 encoding to be useful. It was agreed that it is important for the SOM
 Workgroup to work closely with the TEI community, including those
 present at the OMSIG, to make sure that approaches adopted by TEI will
 be useful to the community.


The SIG has no recommendation on whether the TEI should have only one
 or several 'official' approaches. It was agreed that it is still too
 early, and this question should only be addressed after the TEI
 community has had a chance to view and comment on existing approaches.


 It was agreed that any approach will need to be extensible in the
 sense that any assigned elements (for example) would need to be
 re\-nameable for any project.




