---
layout: page.njk
title: "TEI SIG on Correspondence - Minutes Rome, Oct 3, 2013"
creator: Peter Stadler
---
# TEI SIG on Correspondence - Minutes Rome, Oct 3, 2013





Attendees: Syd Bauman, Benjamin Bohl, Anthony Durity, Mariana Gomes, Marcel Illetschko, Roland
 Kamzelak, Angelika Kreh, Anne Lorenz, Paul O'Shea, Solveig Schreiter, Sabine Seifert,
 Janette Seuffert, Peter Stadler



Presentation of ongoing projects
 
 Attendees very briefly introduced themselves and their ongoing and/or planned projects:


* Peter: [Carl\-Maria\-von\-Weber\-Gesamtausgabe](http://weber-gesamtausgabe.de)
* Roland: [Vernetzte Korrespondenzen (Exilbriefnetz)](http://www.dla-marbach.de/dla/entwicklung/projekte/vernetzte_korrespondenzen_neli/index.html)
* Sabine: [Briefe und Texte aus dem intellektuellen Berlin um 1800](http://tei.ibi.hu-berlin.de/berliner-intellektuelle/)
* Two PhD projects from UCC
* Mariana: [Project P.S., Post Scriptum and CARDS, Unknown Letters](http://ps.clul.ul.pt)




 Discussion of several correspondence tags
 
 Roland started a vivid discussion of several elements (e.g. \<salute\>, \<opener\>, \<postscript\>)
 which \-\- from a structural point of view \-\- didn't fit into his encoding practices.
 Peter pointed at [SIG:Correspondence\#Topics\_currently\_under\_discussion](https://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/SIG:Correspondence#Topics_currently_under_discussion) which is a long standing list of those elements. Problem is, that changing these
 elements would most likely mean to break with the desired backwards compatibility
 of the TEI Guidelines. Peter made an argument for starting with the easier parts,
 i.e. creating a new element within the TEI header for capturing correspondence specific
 metadata. It was agreed to set up a task force for creating such a proposal, given
 that this idea is around for several years now.




 Creation of correspDesc task force
 
 A task force "correspDesc" was set up, including Sabine, Marcel and Peter. Aim of
 the task force is to create a formal proposal for a \<correspDesc\> element for approval
 by the TEI council as a new element of the TEI standard. This work shall be based
 on the ["second draft for a correspondence module and a wrapper element for correspondence
 meta data"](https://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/SIG:Correspondence/ODD_work) as it was started during last year's meeting.
 The activities of the task force will be documented on its own page [SIG:Correspondence/task\-force\-correspDesc](https://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/SIG:Correspondence/task-force-correspDesc)





