---
layout: page.njk
title: "TEI SIG on Correspondence -- Minutes from the Ann Arbor meeting, 14 November 2009"
creator: Peter Stadler
---
# TEI SIG on Correspondence -- Minutes from the Ann Arbor meeting, 14 November 2009



We held a business and working meeting during the annual members meeting. The agenda
 were very open but aimed to focus on concrete milestones for future work 


Attendees: Syd Bauman (SB), Markus Flatscher (MF), Elena Pierazzo (EP), Malte Rehbein
 (MR), Paul Schaffner (PSc), Peter Stadler (PSt), Bert Van Raemdonck (BV) 


The business meeting was attended by MF, PSc, PSt and BV and \- since the number of
 participants allowed it \- was an informal talk about the different projects, the last
 meeting at London and the "correspDesc" PS had proposed there as well as the question
 whether editing correspondence from printed (secondary) material needs to treated
 differently than correspondence from manuscript source material. Work on the roadmap
 was postponed to the working meeting.


The working meeting was attended by all above mentioned participants who agreed on
 the need for a customization of some of the P5 elements (and element classes) for
 encoding correspondence. Question is of course: how?


* P5 has introduced some elements that were inspired by what had been done earlier in
 DALF (P4\), but not all P4 customizations in DALF are actually rendered in P5 (and
 vice versa). Hence, a comparison of both should be a good starting point to eventually
 come to a new ODD for encoding correspondence, and maybe even for introducing an actual
 module for future TEI Guidelines.
* MF, PSt and BV agree on doing such a mapping together. Since BV is like the only DALF
 original left, he will coordinate this: he will split the work up, and will be contacting
 MF and PSt for further arrangements. 
 \[UPDATE: Edward Vanhoutte and Ron Van den Branden agreed to work on this with BV face
 to face and then get back to MF and PSt afterwards. PSt]
* Before X\-mas, there should be a conference call to catch up on how the mapping proceeds.
 PSt will contact Dan O'Donnell for funding.
* Bugs and absurdities in P5 regarding correspondence should be posted on Sourceforge.
 Elena Pierazzo will be the liaison between the SIG and the TEI Council. She will help
 SIG members to report our findings through Sourceforge or otherwise.
* The mapping should result in a new ODD. SB is willing to help us create it. The new
 ODD should somehow be more or less DALF\-like. Hence, the working title of the ODD
 is 'Dalfy'. Dalfy will be an oddified version of DALF where obviously identical concepts
 will already be mapped to their P5 equivalents (therefore Dalfy !\= DALF).
* After the mapping is done, useful elements (or concepts, structures) that are neither
 in DALF or in P5 yet, should be listed. Members of the SIG are welcome to suggest
 their own 'favourite missing elements'.
* With Dalfy as starting point we can than try to rearrange and modify it to come to
 a new Correspondence ODD (no code name yet!) that should resolve all problems and
 satisfy all needs...
* Issues that came up during the meetings concern \<address\> (and multiple addresses
 within one letter) (SB and EP), \<signed\> (everyone), endorsements as well as correspondence
 by committee (PSc)
* Besides the work on Dalfy PSt shall finish his work on oddifying his \<correspDesc\>.


Roadmap/Milestones
 
 * Before Christmas: Teleconference about the mapping (MF, PSt, BV)
* Febr. 10, 2010: Mapping done
* July, 2010: Next SIG meeting at Digital Humanities conference (London) on new ODD



