---
layout: page.njk
title: "TEI SIG on Correspondence -- Minutes from the London meeting, 8 November 2008"
creator: Peter Stadler
---
# TEI SIG on Correspondence -- Minutes from the London meeting, 8 November 2008




 The first section (14\-15:30\) saw short presentations of current projects by:
 
 * Tim McLoughlin: James Barry's letters
* Hilde BÃ¸e: eMunch project (assisted by Ellen Nessheim Wiger with the Henrik Ibsen
 correspondence)
* Peter Boot: correspondence of Vincent van Gogh
* David Sewell: correspondence projects published via ROTUNDA
* Deborah K. Wright: correspondence of Matthew Prior
* Peter Stadler: correspondence of Carl Maria von Weber




 The second section (16\-16:45\) had to be shortened due to organisational necessities
 but saw general discussion about
 
 * the content model of postscript which is rather restricted and does not allow for
 an i.e. head element. Everyone was encouraged to send examples via the list.
* the need and the possible content for an correspDesc element within sourceDesc. Peter
 Stadler will try to create an odd file with the necessary additions to the schema
 as a starting point for further expertise.
* correspondence as an event. Lou Burnard pointed this out as similar topics were discussed
 in the Ontologies SIG.




