---
layout: page.njk
title: "TEI SIG on Correspondence - Minutes Würzburg, Oct 15, 2011"
creator: Benjamin Wolff Bohl
---
# TEI SIG on Correspondence - Minutes Würzburg, Oct 15, 2011




Attendees: Fotis Jannidis (FJ), Syd Bauman (SB), Edward Vanhoutte
 (EV), Ron Van den Branden (RVB), Elena Pierazzo (EP), Lou Burnard
 (LB), Joachim Veit (JV) – convener, Martin de la Iglesia (MI),
 Stefan Cramme (SC), Jörg Ritter (JR), Michael Huber (MH), Mareike
 Laue (ML), Sabine Seifert (SS), Raffaele Viglianti (RV), Sina Bock
 (SB), Anna Maria Komprecht (AMK), Benjamin Wolff Bohl (BWB) –
 minutes



 Introduction (JV)
 
 * introduction of participants
* survey on the developement and history of the SIG and topics
 discussed so far




 Discussion \<correspDesc\> (or similar)
 
 * Sketch of the current situation:
	+ DALF as P4 customization offers a lot of special elements
	 for letter description
	+ Peter Stadler had put a P5\-customization (ODD) into discussion on
	 the SIG:s mailing list, allowing for a core \<corresDesc\> inside \<sourceDesc\>
* Meanwhile EV and RVB (KANTL) are mapping DALF to P5\. In P5 many of
 the former P4 \<letDesc\> elements had already been included in \<tei:msDesc\> ; nevertheless
 an inventory of the remaining additional
 correspondence elements which should be part of a correspondence
 specific customization would be very useful for further
 discussion. Mapping and ODDification of DALF to TEI P5 could be
 completed by the end of the year
* Edvard Munch letters have been transcribed in perfect
 uncustomized TEI, Hilde Boe should be asked if some examples may
 be published in the wiki for further discussion
* In order to assist further discussion a comparison of these
 three solutions will be an essential prerequisite



PRELIMINARY GOAL: Publish a comparison of the three solutions
 on the WiKi (and later enlarge this collection)



* EP brought forward that in aiming for a TEI feature request
 one will have to take into account:
	+ the current discussion about tei:msDesc in the
	 SIG:manuscripts: introducing a tboDesc (text bearing object) in
	 order to address a greater amplitude of "manuscripts"
	+ the idea of forming a "superMetaSIG" in order to coordinate
	 efforts in creating a "elephantDesc" (i.e. a common thing
	 allowing for descriptions of as many textual sources as possible)
* FJ opted against starting with a "superSIG", before finishing
 this SIG:s work, as it is obvious that there will be no quick
 results, which would frustrate people
* RVB put in that defining a small set of elements would be
 more convenient for further generalisation and integration
* SB pointed out that in the end a tboDesc could be the right
 thing and the SIGs should try to feed in specific things
* Based on her experiences with the TEI\-council EP suggests not
 to strive after "big things" because one has to consider that
 backwards compatibility always prevents too ambitious solutions;
 if the SIG goes that way things might be developed and then
 dropped
	+ As there will not be a modification of tei:msDesc EP
	 recommends aiming for a customisation
* JV stated that as far as he understood, the wish for a
 subsetContainer for a very restricted set of new correspondence
 elements has a consensus



MIDDLE\-TERM GOAL: develop a proposal for "official"
 customizations





 Discussion on future work
 
 * JV asked for a taskforce and definition of some future
 activities
* RVDB hopes DALF will conclude their efforts in P5 mapping
 until the end of the year
* FJ proposed a comparison of the two currently discussed
 customizations and the P5\-conformant encoding of the Munch
 Letters; EV (DALF/KANTL) volunteered on setting up the comparison
* JV asked for examples in order to point up the differences
 and supply other projects with some orientation and information
 for their work as early as possible
	+ EV at the edition we started in march \[PLEASES FILL IN THE
	 URL] there you can see the XML
* EP prefers a tighter plan that could even result in a
 porposal for a TEI\-microgrant
	+ e.g. the purpose of two days will be: "we collect letters
	 and put them in the WiKi" or similar; someone will have to
	 coordinate especially if the grant will come out maybe next
	 month
* LB proposed a more complete overview of how to edit letters
 as one would have to be very careful not to think these 3 will
 cover everything;
	+ this would be wonderful but would need researchers and
	 funding(EV)
* EP clarified that it should be about a starting point first
* JV added as we are dependant on the SIG contributors, there
 is only a very small field of letters at the moment
	+ EP: modern, renaissance and medieval letters are completely
	 different
	+ SB: interested in whether the TEI council will consider
	 E\-Mail as corresp or CMC (computer mediated communication)
		- EP: the SIG has to define what they deal with
		- SB: a guidance / thoughts from council will be interesting



MIDDLE\-TERM GOAL: collect examples and find out what people
 have done



* JV: for TEI\-by\-example it's a bit too early but how can we
 help people who want to start with new editions?
* LB: give the 3 examples mentioned above, one has to figure
 out which is best for one's own purpose
* JR's college is looking for a recommendation (editorial note:
 and certainly other projects as well)
* LB: you must make an intellectual deciscion
* EP: it's hard for the beginning; it's ultimately the rule to
 give something: "the best practice might be..."
* JR: would like to see recommendations because otherwise
 people might loose interest
* JV: There is a clear wish for cooperation between editors of
 correspondence and with common solutions this would be much easier
* LB: first common ground is TEI; a meta\-recommendation could
 be a second step
* FJ: common denominators work out of the box
* EV: you will compromise yourself in using a set not fit for
 your purpose; designing your own encoding solution is your
 scholarly work
* EP: sometimes you just want to do the thing everybody else
 does; I claim we should give guidance; there's nothing wrong with
 that



MIDDLE\-TERM GOAL: develop best practice models




LONG\-TERM GOAL: make a compressed proposal (EP)





 other proposals
 
 * SB will try to sprousse up Peter's ODD to make it work with
 the TEI a little better
* SB proposed to make the discussions more visible by taking
 part in conference calls





