---
layout: page.njk
title: "TEI SIG on Correspondence - Minutes Evanston, Oct 22, 2014"
creator: Marcel Illetschko
---
# TEI SIG on Correspondence - Minutes Evanston, Oct 22, 2014





 Attendees
 
 Attendees very briefly introduced themselves and their ongoing and/or planned projects:


* Marcel Illetschko: [Literature Archive of the Austrian National Library, Correspondence Sauer – Seuffert](http://www.onb.ac.at/sammlungen/litarchiv/literaturarchiv_projekte.htm#seuffert)
* Andy Jewell:  [Willa Cather Archive](http://cather.unl.edu)
* Angelika Kreh: [German Literature Archive Marbach, Epistolary Networks](http://exilnetz33.de/de/projektteam/)
* Anne Lorenz: [German Literature Archive Marbach, Epistolary Networks](http://exilnetz33.de/de/projektteam/)
* Elena Pierazzo: [Université de Grenoble 3 'Stendhal', King’s College London](http://www.elenapierazzo.org)
* Sabine Seifert: [Humboldt University Berlin, Berlin Intellectuals 1800\-1830](http://tei.ibi.hu-berlin.de/berliner-intellektuelle)
* Peter Stadler: [University of Paderborn, Carl Maria von Weber Collected Works](http://www.weber-gesamtausgabe.de/de/A009001)
* Magdalena Turska: [University of Oxford, DiXiT](https://oxford.academia.edu/MagdalenaTurska Magdalena Turska @academia.edu)
* Laura Weakly: [William F. Cody Archive, Interdisciplinary Life and Letters of John G. Neihardt](http://unlcms.unl.edu/cas/center-for-digital-research-in-the-humanities/about/staff/weakly University of Nebraska-Lincoln)




 Discussion of \<correspDesc\>
 
 The SIG meeting took place right after the presentation of the proposed new \<correspDesc\>
 element by Sabine, Marcel and Peter ([Towards a Correspondence Module in the TEI](https://prezi.com/e70bkx9iqiib/towards-a-correspondence-module-in-the-tei/))
 It started – actually before a short introduction by Peter and a brief insight in
 ongoing projects by the attendees – with Andrew’s question about the general procedure
 to include new elements in the TEI. Elena pointed out the importance of doing first
 things first: The new proposal should focus on the most important parts of \<correspDesc\>,
 other elements could be implemented afterwards. In general, Elena said, it was very
 useful to inform the council quite early or to invite members of the council to participate
 in the development of new elements since on the one hand their experience is helpful
 and on the other hand the council gets first\-hand information.
 We also discussed minor topics as the encoding of envelopes and address lines and
 the different views on these questions (Elena: envelopes sometimes get re\-used and
 therefore have a “life themselves”, Magdalena: in the 16th century there were no envelopes
 at all so the usage of \<div\> is appropriate, Elena and Peter: one needs to clearly
 distinguish between the metadata (e.g. dates) derived from the envelopes and the text
 on the envelope itself). 
 Andy expressed his hope that minor issues concerning the encoding of correspondence
 could be implemented more quickly. After all one could see that there is a strong
 international demand for the implementation of the proposed \<correspDesc\> element.
 Laura provided an example from the Neihardt collection for testing with the current
 \<correspDesc\> proposal.
 




 Organisational matters
 
 Please add editions to our [wiki](https://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/SIG:Correspondence#Correspondence_Projects wiki)!
 The TEI small grant initiative is still active – maybe a workshop for the development
 of a best practice model for correspondence would be helpful.
 





